Conference Calendar: 2012 CCCC
Wednesday, March 21
Registration and Information 8:00 a.m–6:00 p.m.
Select Meetings and Other Events–various times
Full-Day Workshops 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Half-Day Workshops 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
Half-Day Workshops 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.
Newcomers’ Orientation 5:15 p.m.–6:15 p.m.

Thursday, March 22
Newcomers’ Coffee Hour 7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
Registration and Information 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
Opening General Session 8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.
Exhibit Hall Open 10:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
A Sessions 10:30 a.m.–11:45 a.m.
B Sessions 12:15 p.m.–1:30 p.m.
C Sessions 1:45 p.m.–3:00 p.m.
D Sessions 3:15 p.m.–4:30 p.m.
E Sessions 4:45 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
Scholars for the Dream 6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.
Special Interest Groups 6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.

Friday, March 23
Registration and Information 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Exhibit Hall Open 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
F Sessions 8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
G Sessions 9:30 a.m.–10:45 a.m.
H Sessions 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
I Sessions 12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.
J Sessions 2:00 p.m.–3:15 p.m.
K Sessions 3:30 p.m.–4:45 p.m.
Awards/Recognition Reception 5:00 p.m.–6:30 p.m.
TYCA Talks 6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
Special Interest Groups 6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
Poetry Forum 7:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.
CCCC Jam 9:30 p.m.–1:00 a.m.

Saturday, March 24
Registration and Information 8:00 a.m.–2:30 p.m.
Exhibit Hall Open 10:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m.
Town Hall Meeting 8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
L Sessions 9:30 a.m.–10:45 a.m.
M Sessions 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
N Sessions 12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 1

1

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Individual CCCC Program
The following form has been provided to assist attendees in planning their schedules
for the 2012 Convention.

Wednesday
March 21
Workshop
Wednesday Event

Thursday
March 22

Friday
March 23

Saturday
March 24

Opening General
Session
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Awards Recognition
Reception
5:00 p.m.–6:30 p.m.

Annual Business
Meeting
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.

10:30 a.m.–11:45 a.m.
Session A ________

8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
Session F _________

9:30 a.m.–10:45 a.m.
Session L _________

12:15 p.m.–1:30 p.m.
Session B _________

9:30 a.m.–10:45 a.m.
Session G _________

11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Session M _________

1:45 p.m.–3:00 p.m.
Session C _________

11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Session H_________

12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.
Session N _________

3:15 p.m.–4:30 p.m.
Session D _________

12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.
Session I __________

4:45 p.m.–6:00 p.m.
Session E _________

2:00 p.m.–3:15 p.m.
Session J _________
3:30 p.m.–4:45 p.m.
Session K_________

6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
TSIG. _________

6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG. __________

Cover Design by Ted Veatch, NCTE

2

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 2

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Table of Contents
Sixty-Third Annual Convention
Conference on College Composition and Communication
March 21-24, 2012
St. Louis Renaissance and America’s Convention Center
St. Louis, MO

Greetings from the 2012 Program Chair. . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Local Arrangements Committee. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
About the CCCC Convention. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
General Information and Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Committee Meetings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Wednesday Activities and Workshops . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Convention Program, Wednesday, March 21. . . . . . . . 48
Convention Program, Thursday, March 22. . . . . . . . . . 72
Convention Program, Friday, March 23. . . . . . . . . . . 162
General Session and CCCC Awards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 251
Convention Program, Saturday, March 24. . . . . . . . . 265
CCCC Past Chairs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Exhibitors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 314
Meeting Room Maps. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Index of Participants. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352

National Council of Teachers of English
1111 W. Kenyon Rd, Urbana, Illinois 61801-1010

Printed on Recycled Paper

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 3

3

2/1/12 12:22 PM

CCCC Officers
Chair: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Associate Chair: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Assistant Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Immediate Past Chair: Gwendolyn D. Pough, Syracuse University, NY
Executive Secretary/Treasurer: Kent Williamson, NCTE Executive Director
Secretary: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania

Executive Committee
CCC Editor: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Andy Anderson, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS
Linda S. Bergmann, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
David Blakesley, Clemson University, SC
John C. Brereton, University of Massachusetts Boston
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Tom Deans, University of Connecticut, Storrs
Nancy C. DeJoy, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Roger Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada
Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical College, WI
Debra Journet, University of Louisville, KY
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA
Jessie L. Moore, Elon University, NC
Staci M. Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Paul M. Puccio, Bloomfield College, NJ
Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI
Rochelle (Shelley) Rodrigo, Mesa Community College, AZ
Richard (Dickie) Selfe, Ohio State University, Columbus
Jeff Sommers, Miami University, Middletown, OH
Michael Stancliff, Arizona State University, Tempe
Susan Thomas, University of Sydney, Australia
Lauren Yena, GateWay Community College, Phoenix, AZ
Traci Zimmerman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA

Nominating Committee
Chair: Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb
Zandra L. Jordan, Spelman College, Atlanta, Georgia
Gwendolyn D. Pough, Syracuse University, NY
Carlos Salinas, University of Texas-El Paso
Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Marilyn Valentino, Lorain County Community College, Elyria, OH

CCC Editorial Board
Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Damián Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Steve Bernhardt, University of Delaware, Newark
Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, New York, NY
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID
Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Lynée Lewis Gaillet, Georgia State University, Atlanta
David Gold, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington
Joe Harris, Duke University, Durham, NC
David Holmes, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA
Sue Hum, The University of Texas at San Antonio
Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Barbara L’Eplattenier, University of Arkansas, Little Rock
Shirley Logan, University of Maryland, College Park
Jamie Armin Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
James E. Porter, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Irwin Weiser, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

4

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 4

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Greetings from the
2012 PROGRAM CHAIR
Writing
is the mind’s
gateway to the heart.
—Anonymous
Welcome to St. Louis . . . the gateway to the 63rd annual meeting of the Conference on College Composition
and Communication. It has been almost 25 years since
we last convened in this this vibrant and historic city. In
those years, both the city and our profession have, as our
Chris M. Anson
conference will demonstrate, experienced much change.
North Carolina State
Although a rich assortment of workshops and other
University
preconvention activities will have taken place by ThursRaleigh, NC
day morning, the opening session is our threshold to this
year’s conference. Our chair Malea Powell’s address,
“Stories Take Place,” will draw our attention to threads of narrative that weave us
into being individually and into the tapestry of our collective work. This session is
also our opportunity to welcome each other, fête the recipients of several important
awards, and thank the many people who have contributed to planning the conference.
Rachel Bagby, award-winning writer, vocalist, and advocate of women’s voices, will
show us how to compose and share dekaaz, ten-syllable texts (2/3/5) that will express
our conference experiences and reflections over the next three exciting days.
As we transition from the opening session, a thousand experiences await us: opportunities to be reunited with friends and colleagues and to work with them on
ongoing projects; over 500 concurrent sessions focusing on a rich array of research
studies, important issues and problems, curricular and instructional successes, new
ventures, and cutting-edge information; an exhibit area featuring the latest books,
journals, author signings, and digital innovations; meetings of SIGs, CCCC committees, caucuses, and task forces that make our work visible, useful, and empowering;
and, of course, opportunities to mingle at many receptions and other social gatherings and special events.
Our conference theme is about passageways and transitions we experience as a
profession and as teachers, writers, administrators, and scholars. It’s also about the
transitions our work enables for learners in all higher-education contexts—and about
the forces that stand in the way of those transitions. I invite you to imagine the many
experiences you have at this year’s conference as part of your own transitions—toward greater knowledge and insight, toward new opportunities for you personally
and professionally, and toward your contributions to a profession that continues to
advocate for and enact humane, informed, enlightened, and effective practices.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 5

5

2/1/12 12:22 PM

In addition to all the good things you’ve come to expect from the convention, this year you’ll also find some
innovations and experiments.
•	 We are using a QR code this year at CCCC (posted
here and there throughout the convention). They
look like this:

Dana Gierdowski
	 This code can be read by smart phones, tablets, and
certain other mobile devices and will provide instant access to the CCCC Connected Community
site, where you can find links to materials such as
handouts, entire conference papers, and other resources that panelists have made available in advance of the conference. To read the QR code with
your device, simply download a free QR reader app
and scan the codes you see located around the convention.
•	 If you’re new or relatively new to CCCC, we continue to expand and enhance opportunities for you
to feel welcomed into our large and diverse organization and to learn about the many ways that it can
help you in your work and involve you in its work.
In addition to the Newcomers Orientation, Newcomer’s Coffee Hour, and other regular events, consider attending the Featured Session “Gateways to
Leadership” on Thursday at 4:45 p.m., which will
showcase some of the ways that you can participate
in CCCC. Another session, “Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Publishing But Were
Afraid to Ask” (Thursday at 12:15) will introduce
you to the main CCCC journals, whose editors will
invite you to contribute to our ongoing scholarly
conversations and offer helpful advice.
•	 An undergraduate poster session will showcase
the work of over a dozen students from across the
U.S. who have been engaged in research on writing.
They’ll be presenting their posters on Thursday,
March 22 in the foyer of the Majestic Ballroom,
Renaissance Hotel. After their live presentations,
they will leave their posters for registrants to look
at throughout the conference.

North Carolina State
University
Raleigh, NC

Vincent Casaregola
Local Committee Chair
St. Louis University
St. Louis, MO

Meagan Kittle-Autry
North Carolina State
University
Raleigh, NC

6

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 6

2/1/12 12:22 PM

•	 We have dedicated a room in the convention center for scheduled working sessions of CCCC committees, task forces, SIGs, and caucuses to share their progress on specific initiatives and get feedback from registrants. These meetings
are in addition to the regularly scheduled Friday SIG sessions, and you’ll find
them announced at the end of each concurrent session slot.
•	 To bring the voices (and images) of important international scholars to the
CCCC who are not able to grace us with their physical presence, for the first
time we are holding several digitally enabled international sessions. One or
more scholars in Argentina, England, Israel, Colombia, Venezuela, Belgium,
and New Zealand will join members of in-person international panels on screen.
•	 An innovative access happening, in the spirit of the Happenings of the 1950’s
and 1960’s, will break with the norms of conference sessions and help us to
focus on issues of access in composition.
•	 As promised at the 2011 Annual Business/Town Meeting, heightened focus on
basic writing will be noticeable this year, kicked off with a session featuring
Mike Rose, Lynn Quitman Troyka, and Peter Adams that asks, “Should Basic
Writing Be Put On the Endangered Species List?”
•	 Registrants can contribute to a composition genealogy, a project designed to
trace and make public all the ways that we are interconnected through our graduate mentors and others who have influenced us and our work. Sondra Perl and
colleagues’ session (Thursday at 10:30, “Composing Genealogies: A Family
Tree of Composition/Rhetoric”) will explain the project, and then contributions
can be made in the foyer area of the 200 rooms, Level 2, at the America’s Convention Center.
•	 We have a dynamic lineup of featured speakers, including Susan Blum, an anthropologist whose recently published book examines college plagiarism from
a cultural perspective. Award-winning poet and author Jimmy Santiago Baca
will share how literacy became for him a gateway from prison to a new life;
Deborah Appleman will provide a response that highlights some of her literacy
work in prisons. NCAA president Mark Emmert will reflect on the relationship of literacy and college athletics. Adam Banks, author of the just-published
Digital Griots: African American Rhetoric in a Multimedia Age will give us
“Technologizing Funk/Funkin Technology: Stevie Wonder’s Talking Book as
Gateway to a Black Digital Rhetoric.” In an address cosponsored by the CWPA,
the august Richard Lanham will engage and inform us with “‘That Stuff Hasn’t
Changed Much in 2500 Years, Has It?’  Rhetorical Terms in an Attention Economy.” And writer, vocalist, composer, and inspirer Rachel Bagby, author of
Divine Daughters: Liberating the Power and Passion of Women’s Voices, will
lead a dynamic session focusing on a new poetic form, the dekaaz.
Among those already mentioned are seventeen featured panel sessions that will
trace the development of our discipline and organization, celebrate important professional anniversaries, bridge the past and the future, explore problems and controversies, and offer us new insights and perspectives. Hundreds of other panel sessions

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 7

7

2/1/12 12:22 PM

and roundtables will offer us a rich array of opportunities to learn, share information,
and engage in rich dialogues about every facet of our work.
And after all that, there’s the city of St. Louis to enjoy. I need only advise you to
read Local Arrangements Chair Vince Casaregola’s spirited and detailed welcome to
get you inspired about all the places you can visit to recreate or learn from, and all
the terrific restaurants you can sample while you’re here.
Finally, a personal note: As I started to assume the role of Program Chair, I was
clueless about the effort it takes to put on a national convention that brings together
over 3,500 people who participate in 500-600 sessions and countless other events.
I imagined what Eero Saarinen, architect of the St. Louis arch, must have felt as he
walked the grassy space by the Mississippi River where his remarkable structure
would go up, piece by piece, into the Missouri sky. But he knew—as I learned—
that monumental work gets done only with the contribution of countless minds and
hands. Among those who have made this year’s conference possible are well over a
hundred proposal reviewers, coaches, and Stage 2 reviewers; a smart and dedicated
Local Arrangements Committee; an amazing staff at the NCTE/CCCC headquarters,
especially conference coordinators extraordinaire Eileen Maley and Jacquie JosephBiddle, and administrative liaison Kristen Suchor; my two incredibly hard-working
graduate assistants Meagan Kittle-Autry and Dana Gierdowski, who graciously and
unflaggingly took on conference-related work in the midst of their graduate programs
and other duties; an Officers team that I relied on far too much for advice and counsel; and dozens of friends and colleagues who allayed my almost constant doubts
and fears with their wisdom and calm responses. Countless people worked tirelessly
to bring you all that you will experience here. My thanks to them are immeasurable.
Chris Anson
2012 Program Chair

8

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 8

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Acknowledgments
Online Coaches
Anis Bawarshi
Rebecca Burnett
Michael Day

Eli Goldblatt
Amy Kimme Hea
David Joliffe

Beverly Moss
Kathleen Blake Yancey

Stage I Reviewers
Joyce Rain Anderson
Linda Bergman
Patrick Bizzaro
Resa Crane Bizzaro
Melody Bowdon
Laura Brady
Deborah Brandt
Paul Butler
Joyce Carter
Michael Carter
Shannon Carter
Michelle Navarre Cleary
Michelle Cox
Kevin DePew
Jay Dolmage
John Duffy
Lucia Dura
Kevin Dvorak
Joseph Eng
Douglas Eyman
Christine Farris
Sonia Feder-Lewis
Lauren Fitzgerald
Helen Foster
Paige Franklin
Cheryl Geisler
Barbara Gleason
Jeff Grabill
Nancy Grimm
Angela Haas

Christina Haas
William Hart-Davidson
H. Brooke Hessler
John Heyda
Bruce Horner
Sandra Jamieson
Johndan Johnson-Eilola
Susan Katz
Stephanie Kerschbaum
Cristina Kirklighter
Neal Lerner
Qwo-LiDriskill
Barbara Lutz
Kevin Mahoney
Barry Maid
LuMing Mao
Rita Malenczyk
Kate Mangelsdorf
Martha Marinara
Mark McBeth
Mary McMullen-Light
Brian McNely
Joyce Middleton
Carolyn R. Miller
Susan Miller-Cochran
Joan Mullin
Sarah Nakamaru
Sushil K. Oswal
Iswari Pandey
Tom Peele

Nancy Penrose
Les Perelman
Mya Poe
Paul Puccio
Tom Reynolds
Keith Rhodes
David Rieder
Ben Ristow
Kelly Ritter
Kevin Roozen
Deborah Rossen-Knill
David Russell
Carol Rutz
John Scenters-Zapico
Stuart Selber
Michelle Sidler
Steve Simpson
Ryan Skinnell
Clay Spinuzzi
Jason Swarts
Amy Rupiper Taggart
Chris Thaiss
William Thelin
Joona Smitherman Trapp
Peter Vandenberg
Stephanie Vanderslice
Chad Wickman
Maja Wilson
Ann Frances Wysocki
Steven Youra

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 9

9

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Stage II Reviewers
Howard Tinberg
Shelley Rodrigo
Mya Poe

Paul Prior
Tiane Donahue
Carol Rutz

Vincent Casaregola
Asao Inoue

In Memoriam
Summer Taylor
Greg Colomb

10

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 10

2/1/12 12:22 PM

First Time to the Convention?
With pleasure, the CCCC Newcomers’ Orientation Committee welcomes all of you
to the 2012 CCCC convention, but especially new members and first-time attendees.
We have planned several events that we hope will help you get the most out of this
conference. (These events and their locations are listed in the Special Events schedules
in the convention program.)
   On Wednesday, from 5:15–6:15 p.m., our committee will host a brief Orientation Session. We will discuss how to navigate the conference, how to use the program book effectively, how to participate in the convention’s many events, and how
to meet others. We also look forward to meeting you at the Newcomers’ Coffee on
Thursday from 7:30–8:15 a.m.—a congenial start to the first full day of activities.
   Throughout the conference, members of this Committee and other CCCC members will be available in a “Newcomers’ Station” to answer questions, chat about the
conference, talk about our shared interests, learn about your work, and discuss how
CCCC can support you. Committee members will also be present throughout the
conference—we’ll have specially marked badges—always ready to listen to your
concerns, help you with your questions, and begin the kinds of professional conversations that have made this conference one of the high points of the year for each of
us.
FIRST TIMER’S COMMITTEE
With warm good wishes,
Paul M. Puccio, Chair
Paul Butler
Jennifer Clary-Lemon
Amanda Espinosa-Aguilar
Paul Hanstedt
Martha Marinara
Mary Beth Pennington
Suzanne Kesler Rumsey
Cindy Selfe
Joonna Trapp
Christine Tulley
Leslie Werden
Sheldon Wrice

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 11

11

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Local Arrangements Committee Welcome
As Local Arrangements Chair for the 2012 CCCC Convention, I welcome you
to St. Louis, where I hope that you will find a gateway not only to several days of
fruitful dialogue on the important issues of our discipline but also a time for some
well-earned recreation in the various places we are fortunate to call part of our home.
Our diverse city and its downtown reflect our whole nation’s history, both distant and
recent, in its many architectural and historic sites, and these offer an opportunity for
exploration and reflection for us in our roles as teachers, writers, and scholars.
Certainly the focus of downtown is the Gateway Arch, at the center of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial Park. The arch itself is a dynamic achievement
of modernist architect Eero Saarinen who was, quite fittingly, an immigrant. A visit
to the top, via internal tram, allows for a magnificent view of the city and its surrounding areas. While the museum and the whole site remind us of the troubling and
problematic nature of our national expansion during the nineteenth century, they can
also offer a new chance to understand and celebrate our twenty-first century awareness of being a nation of diverse communities unified in a common hope for justice.
Such justice and the lack of it are immortalized in the Old Courthouse, also part
of the Memorial Park and the location of the first two Dred Scott trials (1847 and
1850). A visit to the Courthouse museum confronts Americans with a history of both
failure and courage—failure of our system to achieve justice on so many occasions
and yet the indomitable courage of those who, like Dred Scott, persisted in the search
for justice despite the obstacles. As we now begin to commemorate the 150th anniversaries of all the events of the American Civil War, it is especially important to
understand the painful history of slavery and racism, along with the heroism of those
who opposed it.
Downtown St. Louis architecture also offers a full range of interesting and intriguing places from all historical periods, from the early nineteenth-century Old
Cathedral (1818), to the Wainwright Building (an early skyscraper by pioneer modern architect Louis Sullivan), to the more recent office tower Metropolitan Square
by Gyo Obata (a principal of Hellmuth, Obata and Kassabaum and designer of the
National Air and Space Museum). Obata, whose Japanese-American family suffered
internment during World War II, went on to become one of the best-known architects
in post-war America.
At the other end of the spectrum, for those who want to inspire their inner, childlike imagination, the St. Louis City Museum offers a real adventure. Developed by
the late Bob Cassilly, a local artist and sculptor, the museum provides a unique place
for interactive engagement with exciting physical spaces, all in a multi-story building that begin life as a shoe factory. Likewise, the open-air St. Louis Citygarden provides a chance to see urban space re-imagined with an emphasis on the “greening”
of a traditional downtown.
The main convention sites, The America’s Center and the adjacent Renaissance
Hotel, are conveniently located near the east end of the new and exciting loft district
on Washington Avenue. Here the traditional brick buildings of the old garment district have been transformed into one of downtown’s brightest venues for shops and
12

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 12

2/1/12 12:22 PM

restaurants, all within an easy walk of the convention. Moving east from America’s
Center will take you to Laclede’s Landing, right along the Mississippi River and also
an exciting area of stores, eateries, and recreation.
Within easy driving distance from downtown (often less than 10 minutes) can be
found several more of our interesting areas for dining, shopping, and entertainment.
The Grand Center area (Lindell and Grand) in midtown hosts a variety of entertainment venues, including the popular Fabulous Fox Theater, featuring Broadwaystyle shows. Just up the block from the Fox is Powell Symphony Hall, home to the
world-class St. Louis Symphony Orchestra, under the baton of Music Director David
Robertson. Also within a walk of these are the historic Grandel Square Theater, featuring the St. Louis Black Repertory Theater, the Sheldon Concert Hall, the Museum
of Contemporary Art, and the Pulitzer Foundation Museum. On the adjacent Saint
Louis University campus are both the University Museum of Art and the Museum of
Contemporary Religious Art.
Just a couple of miles south of the Grand Center area is the intriguing South
Grand district, where ethnic restaurants offer everything from traditional Italian and
Chinese to more unusual Bosnian and Persian cuisines. Travelling a similar distance
west on Lindell brings you to the Central West End, bordering the east side of historic Forest Park and featuring a host of shops and a variety of restaurants for every
taste. Not to be missed is independent bookseller Left Bank Books, hosting frequent
literary readings. Forest Park itself offers both the Missouri History Museum and the
St. Louis Art Museum, the latter dating back to the St. Louis World’s Fair of 1904.
A hidden gem of Forest Park is the Jewel Box, an Art Deco floral conservatory that
Tennessee Williams made famous in The Glass Menagerie—one of the places to
which Laura Wingfield would escape to dream.
On the west end of Forest Park, near the campus of Washington University, is the
University City Loop. Strolling up and down the street here is almost entertainment
enough, with the historic walk of fame stars embedded in the pavement providing a
history of the great and glorious who have come from or worked in St. Louis. The
stroll will be interrupted frequently, however, by the temptation to drop into any
number of international restaurants and interesting and quirky shops that can appeal
to everyone from college students to emeriti faculty. The Blueberry Hill restaurant
is one of the featured loop locations, an entertainment venue made famous by the
great Chuck Berry, another of the St. Louis luminaries commemorated on the Walk
of Fame. The Washington University campus is home to both the Edison Theater and
the Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum. It is also the site of frequent poetry and fiction readings by both nationally and internationally acclaimed writers.
One more exceptional destination is the Missouri Botanical Garden, one of the
premier urban gardens in America. The legacy of nineteenth-century businessman
Henry Shaw, this 79-acre site offers both indoor and outdoor gardens, and its Climatron and Temperate House can take visitors from the streets of St. Louis to the exotic
edges of the globe at any time of the year. This garden is genuinely a gateway to a
unique experience that visitors long treasure.
For those with automobile transportation, a short 15-minute drive across the
Mississippi River will bring them to the Cahokia Mounds Illinois State Historic
Site. These Mounds are the remains of a once-thriving Native American city of the

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 13

13

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Mississippian culture, a city that was larger than London in 1250 C.E. The site reminds us of the ancient roots of settlement in the St. Louis area, a gateway of its own
into a greater appreciation of our past.
So welcome to all of you coming to St. Louis for what we know will be another
exciting CCCC convention, and rest assured that we will do all in our power to make
this a worthwhile event in every way.
Local Chair: Vincent Casaregola, Saint Louis University
Information: Dianna Shank, Southwestern Illinois University
Room Arrangements: William Klein, University of Missouri at St. Louis
Registration: Marty Townsend, University of Missouri at Columbia
Exhibits: Janice McIntire-Strasburg, Saint Louis University
Special Events (James Berlin Run/Walk): Nathaniel Rivers, Saint Louis
	
University
Accessibility: Muffy Walter, Benedictine College, Atchinson, KS

About the CCCC Convention
CCCC Membership: Please Join Us!
Membership in the Conference on College Composition and Communication is open
to all who teach or are interested in college composition and the first-year English
course. The annual dues of $25.00 includes a subscription to College Composition
and Communication, a quarterly journal. Membership in NCTE ($50.00) is a prerequisite to joining CCCC. Student membership is available, at substantially reduced
rates, to full-time students who are not engaged in a paid teaching position on more
than a half-time basis. To join CCCC, or to obtain further information, please stop by
the NCTE/CCCC Publications Booth in the Exhibit Hall.

Registration
The Conference Registration Desk is in the America’s Convention Center, Exhibit
Hall 1, and is open Wednesday, March 21, 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.; Thursday, 8:00 a.m.–
6:00 p.m.; Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.; and, Saturday, 8:00 a.m.–2:30 p.m. Those
who ordered a Convention Program in advance may pick up a plastic name-badge
holder at various locations near the Registration Desk. There is no need to stop at the
Registration Desk. Those who preregistered and received a Program Coupon in the
mail may pick up their Program at the Program Pick-up Counters at the Registration
Desk. For replacement name badges (free) and/or replacement program books (at
$20), preregistrants should inquire at the Replacement Counter.

Exhibits
The exhibits are located in the America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1. Exhibit
hours are Thursday, 10:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m., Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m., and Saturday, 10:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m.
14

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 14

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Local Committee Headquarters
The headquarters for Local Committee Chair Vincent Casagerola and other members
of the Local Arrangements Committee is the Conference Registration Desk.

Location of Meeting Rooms
All meetings of the 2012 CCCC are in the Renaissance Hotel and the America’s
Convention Center.

Information for Attendees with Disabilities
CCCC is committed to making arrangements that allow all of its members to participate in the convention. To this end, information for attendees with disabilities
was included in the program invitations, in the preview, and online, and we invited
those who needed information to contact us by late January. We have made wheelchair space available in meeting rooms, will provide information about traveling
around the headquarters hotel, and have arranged sign language interpreting. We
also provided all speakers and session chairs with guidelines that will make sessions
more accessible to all convention participants. These arrangements have resulted in
conversations between the Program Chair, NCTE staff, the CCCC Committee on
Disability Issues in Composition and Communication, and disability studies specialists at the University of Illinois and other professional associations. Information is
available at the Local Committee booth next to registration.

Workshops
Held on the Wednesday preceding the Annual Convention sessions, full-day and
half-day workshops provide an opportunity for extended time and interaction focused on a particular topic or issue. Each workshop has an enrollment limit, and
participants pay an additional fee (separate from the convention registration fee) to
enroll. Workshops are run by CCCC members whose proposals have been accepted
by CCCC reviewers.

Opening General Session
The CCCC Convention’s Opening General Session is one of two opportunities for
convention participants to meet as a group. This session features the Chair’s address
by Malea Powell.

Concurrent Sessions
Most of the meetings of the CCCC Convention occur in the concurrent sessions held
on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. Each session on the program was highly regarded
by teams of CCCC reviewers. All concurrent sessions run for 75 minutes and are of
two kinds: 1) panels, featuring two to four speakers who deliver 15–20-minute presentations and then respond to questions from the audience; 2) roundtables, where
several panelists make brief presentations, respond to each other, and then respond
to questions from the audience.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 15

15

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Special Interest Groups/Business Meetings and Caucuses
On Thursday, and Friday evenings, individuals who share common concerns and/or
interests will meet in Special Interest Groups and Caucuses. For a complete listing of
these groups, see pages 158–161 and 260–263.

CCCC 2012 Online

To find links to past versions of CCCC Online and to search the collection, visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/review. For this year, home (homepage, that is) is at
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/conv.

The NCTE/CCCC Mobile Technology Center
Computer Connection Presentations
Douglas Eyman, Computer Connection Coordinator
(eymand@msu.edu)
Sponsored by the CCCC Committee on Computers and Composition, the Computer
Connection offers presentations on new software and technologies for teaching composition and literature, computer-facilitated classroom practices, best practices for
teaching online, new technology resources, and electronic journals. The Computer
Connection takes place in the Renaissance Hotel, Benton Room, Mezzanine Level.
The presentations are offered throughout the day on Thursday, March 22, and Friday,
March 23. Information about current and past presentations is available online at
http://computersandwriting.org/cc/. The CC presentations run 25 minutes each, so
you can attend them individually or as full concurrent sessions. Questions or comments about the Computer Connection may be directed to Douglas Eyman, CC Coordinator (eymand@msu.edu).
C’s the Day, now in its second year, is waiting for players! C’s the Day draws on the
inherently social dimensions of play by encouraging players/conference attendees to
take up a more active role in creating their experiences.  This game provides a great
way for newcomers to experience the range of events that C’s has to offer, gives experienced conference-goers a whole new vantage on their time, and encourages both
parties to experience the conference in a unique way. 
	 The name is “C’s the Day: An Augmented Reality Game” and the url is http://
cstheday.org/ The designers/organizers are: 
Doug Eyman, George Mason
Mary Karcher, Wayne State University
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University
Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College

16

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 16

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Baker College 
Wendi Sierra, North Carolina State University 
Jameson Hogan, North Carolina Sate University
Visit us at our table near the Registration Desk in the America’s Convention Center,
Exhibit Hall 1.

“Every CCCC Member Has a Story . . . Tell Us Yours!” 
The CCCC and the Newcomers Committee, in partnership with the Digital Archives
of Literacy Narratives (DALN) and the NCTE, invites you to tell us a story about
reading and composing. We will help you record your story (using either video or
audio) and preserve it on line where friends, family and students can access it—all
within 30 minutes. Join us just outside Exhibit Hall 1 of the Americas Convention
Center.
Cynthia Selfe, H. Lewis Ulman

CCCC is a reunion: Discover your roots.
Explore your past, connect to colleagues, and trace your intellectual ancestry on the
new Writing Studies Tree. Created by students and faculty at the CUNY Graduate
Center, the tree is an open-access web-based platform that will, for the first time, enable all members of our profession to record their lines of influence as mentors and
students, and thus to uncover a history that has until now remained either anecdotal
or invisible.
	 Join us throughout the conference in the lobby of the 200 Meeting Rooms, Level
2, at the America’s Convention Center, to add to or browse through the branches of
the tree. Our goal is to create a comprehensive genealogy of writing studies, identifying academic “ancestors,” “descendants,” and “siblings.” Who are yours?
	 Learn more about the tree under Featured Session A.
Sondra Perl, Benjamin Miller, and the cultivators at the CUNY Graduate Center

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 17

17

2/1/12 12:22 PM

General Information and Services
Audiovisual Equipment
Renaissance Hotel, Washington Room, Lobby Level, and
America’s Convention Center, Room 250, 251, Level 2
Audiovisual equipment should have been ordered by February 9, 2012. Scheduling
of equipment ordered by that date is handled by Pick’s A.V.

Resolutions Committee
An open meeting of the CCCC Committee on Resolutions, chaired by Doug Eyman,
will be held Thursday, March 22, 5:30–6:30 p.m. (open), 6:30–7:30 p.m. (closed) in
the Renaissance Hotel, Lafayete Room, Mezzanine Level

Nominating Committee
An open meeting of the CCCC Nominating Committee, chaired by Kelly Ritter, will
be held on Friday, March 23, 8:00-10:00 a.m., in the Renaissance Hotel, Hawthorne
Room, 21st Floor.

Planning for Next Year’s CCCC Convention
Individuals interested in discussing program proposals for the 2013CCCC Convention in Las Vegas, NV, March 13-16, 2013 are invited to meet with Howard Tinberg,
2013 Program Chair, at the CCCC Registration Desk, 10:00 a.m.–Noon, America’s
Convention Center, and Exhibit Hall 1, Level l.

Smoking
The Renaissance Hotel and the America’s Convention Center have a smoke-free environment. No smoking is allowed in the hotel or Center.

Nonsexist Language

All CCCC/2012 program participants were sent and asked to use the official CCCC
position statement and guidelines for nonsexist language at their session.

Copying Service
CCCC cannot provide onsite duplicating service; however, copying services are provided at the Renaissance’s Business Center and America’s Convention Center Business Center.

18

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 18

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Emergencies

To summon the fire department, the police, or an ambulance (for medical emergencies only), dial 911 and give the nature of the emergency, your location, and the
telephone number you are calling from.
Medical and Dental. Most hotels can put you in touch with a doctor or dentist. Inquire at the hotel front desk or ask the hotel operator.
Fire Safety. Although hotel fires are rare, the Executive Committee has asked that
convention participants be given complete advice on what to do in case of fire in their
hotel. Hotels are equipped with a variety of fire-protection devices—smoke alarms,
sprinklers, fire-retardant materials—but none of them is designed to put out fires.
They merely contain a fire, impeding its growth and progress long enough to permit
the fire department to arrive on the scene. Fire safety in a hotel ultimately depends
on the hotel staff’s prompt response to reports of fire or smoke. Most hotel staffs
will verify the presence of a reported fire before summoning the fire department. To
report a fire, call the hotel operator and give your name, location, and the location
of the suspected fire. Depending on the circumstances, some fire-safety consultants
recommend that after you have called the hotel operator, you also call the local fire
department: dial 911. This step will result in the fire department coming to the hotel
even as the hotel staff is verifying your report of the fire. You hazard a false alarm
on the one hand; on the other, you may be responsible for bringing the fire quickly
under control because you have bypassed the hotel’s verification procedure. Apart
from reporting a suspected fire, you should be aware of various precautions to be
taken for your own safety in the event of a fire. A summary of some recommended
precautions follows:
	 As you are escorted to your room for the first time by the hotel bell staff, check
the location of the exit nearest your room. You should know exactly how many doors
are between your room and the exit. You might have to crawl to this exit in a dark or
smoke-filled corridor. If there’s a fire alarm or warning call from the hotel management, don’t stop to gather personal belongings or work papers. Just get out as quickly
as possible. Take your room key. You may find it necessary to retreat to your room.
Before you open the door to the corridor, put your palm against it and touch the knob.
If the door is cool, open it slowly, keeping your foot braced against the bottom. (This
helps you slam the door shut if you discover fire or smoke outside.) If the door is hot,
do not open it. Soak blankets or towels in water and pack them around the door.
	 If you must crawl to an exit door, stay close to the wall to avoid anyone running. If
you can’t leave your room, wait by the window to be rescued. Stay close to the floor
to avoid breathing smoke. To increase ventilation, open or break the window (if you
don’t see smoke or flames rising past the window). Don’t jump from the upper floors
of a burning building. Wait for the firefighters to rescue you. Let them know you’re
there by waving towels or coats out the windows.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 19

19

2/1/12 12:22 PM

SPECIAL EVENTS
WEDNESDAY’S SPECIAL EVENTS:
March 21
NCTE/NCATE Reviewers Training
Renaissance Hotel, Pershing Room, Lobby Level
8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m.
Research Network Forum
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon E, Second Floor
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Consortium of Doctoral Programs in Rhetoric and
Composition
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
1:30–5:00 p.m.
Exultation of Larks: Poet-to-Poet
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
1:30–5:00 p.m.
Qualitative Research Network
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.
Intellectual Property in Composition Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
2:00–5:30 p.m.
Newcomers’ Orientation
America’s Convention Center, Room 230/231, Level 2
5:15 p.m.–6:15 p.m.

20

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 20

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Coalition of Women Scholars
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A/B,
Second Floor
6:00–8:00 p.m.
Rhetoricians for Peace—Where are the Rhetoricians?
Rhetorical Intervention as Activism
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
6:00–10:00 p.m.
Master’s Degree Consortium of Writing Studies Specialists
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
6:30–8:30 p.m.
Public Image of the Two-Year Colleges: Hallmarks of Fame
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
6:30-7:30 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 21

21

2/1/12 12:22 PM

SPECIAL EVENTS
THURSDAY’S SPECIAL EVENTS:
March 22
Newcomers’ Coffee Hour
Renaissance Hotel, Crystal Ballroom, 20th Floor, Grand Tower
7:30–8:15 a.m.
Opening Session
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salons D-E, Second
Floor
8:30–10:00 a.m.
At this session we honor both the 2012 Exemplar Award Winner and our Scholars for
the Dream Travel Award Winners and also hear the CCCC Chair’s address. Please
join us.

Scholars for the Dream Reception
Renaissance Hotel, Statler Room, Lobby Level
6:00–7:00 p.m.
Everyone is invited!
Winners of the Scholars for the Dream Travel Awards (announced in the Opening
General Session) are chosen by a Selection Committee. All are first-time presenters
at the CCCC Convention and are selected on the basis of the extended abstracts of
their proposals that each submitted. All are members of groups historically underrepresented in CCCC (African Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans,
Puerto Ricans and other Latin and Latino Americans, and American Indians). Join
these at the reception to meet them personally and learn about their research interests.

22

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 22

2/1/12 12:22 PM

SPECIAL EVENTS
FRIDAY’S SPECIAL EVENTS:
March 23
Awards/Recognition Reception
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
5:00–6:30 p.m.
At this reception we announce the winners of the 2012 Outstanding Book Award,
The James Berlin Memorial Outstanding Dissertation Award, The Braddock Award,
the Award for best article in TETYC, and the Nell Ann Pickett Service Award. Past
CCCC chairs and distinguished guests will be recognized. A reception follows.
Please attend and honor your colleagues.

TYCA Talks
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
6:30–7:30 p.m.
This special event brings together two-year college faculty and those with shared
interests to meet one another, form liaisons, and become better informed about the
work of the regional organizations and national TYCA. Each member of the national
TYCA Executive Committee will be introduced, and each of the seven regional representatives will give a brief overview of initiatives and news from their regions. All
participants will have time for get-acquainted conversation, the opportunity to join
with others in forming a panel for future conventions, and the time to share challenges and best practices of two-year college faculty.

The Twenty-Fifth Annual Poetry Forum:
Exultation of Larks
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
7:30–10:30 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 23

23

2/1/12 12:22 PM

CCCC Jam
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salons D/E, Second
Floor
9:30 p.m.–1:00 a.m.
CCCC isn’t CCCC without a night of fun, dancing, and partying! And Friday night
will be the jam to beat all jams. So, bring your best two-step, your coolest moves and
get your party on at the C’s!
	 Sponsored by McGraw Hill

SPECIAL EVENTS
SATURDAY’S SPECIAL EVENTS:
March 24
TYCA Annual Breakfast
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom D, Second Floor
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.
This lively annual event presents TYCA’s Outstanding Programs in English Awards
and the Fame and Shame Awards for media reference to two-year colleges. Come,
break muffins, eat a hot breakfast, and talk with convivial two-year college faculty
and other boosters. National TYCA is a national coalition of the seven TYCA Regional Conferences, each of which has retained its separate identity. Because this
breakfast is partially supported by donations from book publishers, educational software companies, and many textbook authors who teach at two-year colleges, the cost
per person is only $25.00. Tickets should have been ordered in advance. You can
check at the Registration Desk, Exhibit Hall, to see if any tickets are still available.

Annual Business/Town Hall Meeting
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom E, Second Floor
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
The CCCC annual business meeting happens at 8:00 a.m. Saturday. It’s open to all
CCCC members, and as veterans of that meeting well know, there is inevitably a
lively exchange on crucial issues.

24

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 24

2/1/12 12:22 PM

2012 CCCC
Exemplar Award Winner
For four decades, Mike Rose’s books have shaped scholarship in composition, redefining literacy, reshaping cognitive approaches to learning, challenging policy-makers,
and inspiring teachers and students. His Lives on the
Boundary is a canonical text, and other books including Possible Lives, The Mind at Work, and Why School?
are widely taught in graduate and undergraduate classes
across the country. His work is written to be accessible to
a broad audience, yet is also meticulously researched and
argued, and deeply personal. At the center of his scholarMike Rose
ship is a sense of the inherent agency and ability of stuUniversity of California
dents and their potential. As Andrea A. Lunsford writes,
Los Angeles
his “books and essays speak to teachers everywhere who
know that they can and do make a difference in students’
lives—and, importantly, that their students can and do
make a difference in their lives as well.”
Mike Rose has also aimed for an audience and an influence outside of the academy, writing books, a blog, and hundreds of newspaper and magazine articles about
issues in schooling and higher education. David Bartholomae applauds the incredible far-reaching scholarship of Mike Rose. He writes, “Mike Rose provides the
striking example of a scholar who could think beyond the expected and who had the
ambition to write for the nation.” Mike Rose has used his seniority and experience to
become an even greater advocate for writing teachers and students.
Mike Rose has reshaped the experience of the academy for so many of our students. His work challenges writing teachers to rethink labels, to understand the everyday lives of student writers, their diverse literacies and thought processes. Starting first with a caring and careful engagement with his own students and their stories,
he has effectively shifted the way our discipline sees student writers, in particular
those writers who have traditionally been most at risk.
Mike Rose has profoundly re-conceptualized the teaching of basic writers, particularly at community colleges, and thus he has also impacted the daily work of tens
of thousands of teachers. As one such teacher wrote in nominating Professor Rose,
“he has helped us to realize the importance of what we do, the fact that helping basic
writers grow into proficient writers contributes more to the democratizing mission of
higher education than any other component.”
In Lives on The Boundary, Rose writes about a student named Lucia. “I began to
reflect on how many pieces had to fall into place each day in order for her to be a
student,” he wrote, noting that these pieces all had to fall into “smooth alignment.”
When we survey Mike Rose’s contribution to our discipline, we see many pieces,
and we can easily shuffle them into a smooth narrative. Yet each of these contribu-

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 25

25

2/1/12 12:22 PM

tions does much more than tell the story of a very successful, exemplary career. Each
piece of Mike Rose’s scholarship and advocacy does the ongoing work of challenging and removing the boundaries that students such as Lucia continue to face.
Therefore, CCCC honors Mike Rose, Professor in the UCLA Graduate School of
Education and Information Studies, with its most prestigious honor, the 2012 Exemplar Award. This award is given to “a person whose years of service as an exemplar
for our organization represents the highest ideals of scholarship, teaching, and service to the entire profession.” Exemplars, in addition, “set the best examples for the
CCCC membership.” Mike Rose has had a profound impact on scholarship in our
field, on the wider world of politics and policy, on students of all levels, and on the
tens of thousands of practitioners who teach writing every day.

26

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 26

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Sessions Presented by
Two-Year College Faculty
Concurrent Sessions Presented by Two-Year
College Faculty
B.28	
F.23	

F.32	

H.07	
H.09	
H.28	
J.29	
L.16	
L.23	
M.09	
M.13	
N.33	

Playing at the Gate: Exploring the Possibilities for Play and Pleasure in
Developmental English
Wikipedia, Research Writing, and the People Formerly Known as the Audience: Knowledge Making, Audience, and Motivation in the Read/Write
Web First-Year Composition Classroom
Conclusions from a Qualitative Study of Dual Credit Writers at the Community College: What Happens When High School Students Write in a College Course?
A Gateway to Teaching in the Two-Year College: TYCA’s Revised Guidelines for Academic Preparation
Expansion of Acceleration in Basic Writing–The Replication Program
At the Threshold of Transformation: Two-Year College Writing Programs
in Transition
CUNY’s Assessment of Academic Writing Proficiency-A Case Study
Opening up the Faculty Lounge: Getting Students to Think like Teachers,
Getting Teachers to Think like Students
How Gateways to Writing Can Unlock the Gates to the Academy and Professional Success
(Re)Structuring Gateways in a Community College: Using a Title III Grant
to Increase Access to “College-Level” Composition
College Level Thinking and Writing: Multidisciplinary and Cross-Contextual Perspectives
There’s Nothing Basic about Basic Writing

Friday Special Interest Groups (TYCA)
TYCA TALKS
Friday night, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 27

27

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Committee Meetings
CCCC Executive Committee
Wednesday, March 21, 9 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
Chair: Malea Powell

Committee on Assessment
Thursday, March 22, 1:30–3:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Westmoreland Room, Lobby Level
Chair: Susanmarie Harrington

Committee on Best Practices for Online Writing Instruction
Friday, March 23, 9:30–11:30 a.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Lafayette Room, Mezzanine Level
Co-Chairs: Beth Hewett and Scott Warnock

Committee on Computers in Composition and
Communication
Friday, March 23, 12:30–1:30 p.m. (Closed)
1:30-2:20 p.m. (Open)
Renaissance Hotel, Aubert Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Doug Eyman

Convention Concerns Committee
Saturday, March 24, Noon–1:00 p.m.
Renaissance Hotel, Lafayette Room, Mezzanine Level
Co-Chairs: Gwendolyn D. Pough and Malea Powell

Committee on Disability Issues
Friday, March 23, 5:00–7:00 p.m. (Open)
Renaissance Hotel, Lafayette Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Jay Dolmage

Committee on Intellectual Property
Friday, March 23, 12:30–1:45 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Westmoreland Room, Lobby Level
Chair: Jeffrey Galin

28

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 28

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Committee on LGBT/Q Issues
Friday, March 23, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Parkview Room, Mezzanine Level
Co-Chairs: Martha Marinara and Mark McBeth

Language Policy Committee
Wednesday, March 21, 7:45–8:45 p.m. (Open)
8:45–9:45 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Westmoreland Room, Lobby Level
Co-Chairs: Kim Brian Lovejoy and Elaine Richardson

Newcomers’ Orientation Committee
Friday, March 23, 2:00 –3:15 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Parkview Room, Lobby Level
Chair: Paul Puccio

Nominating Committee
Friday, March 23, 8:00–10:00 a.m. (Open)
Friday, March 23, 2:00–4:00 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Hawthorne Room, 21st Floor
Chair: Kelly Ritter

Committee on Part-time, Adjunct or Contingent Labor
Thursday, March 22, 3:00–5:00 p.m. (Open)
Renaissance Hotel, Aubert Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Bradley Hammer

Committee on Preparing Teachers of College Writing
Saturday, March 24, 9:30–11:00 a.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Shaw Room, Lobby Level
Chair: Shelley Reid

Committee on Professional Visibility and Databases
Thursday, March 22, 10:30 a.m.–12:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Aubert Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Helen Foster

Research Committee
Thursday, March 22, 3:30 –5:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Parkview Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Valerie Kinloch

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 29

29

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Resolutions Committee
Thursday, March 22, 5:30–6:30 p.m. (Open)
6:30–7:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Lafayette Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Doug Eyman

Committee on Second Language Writing
Saturday, March 24, 9:30 a.m.–Noon (Open)
Renaissance Hotel, Aubert Room, Mezzanine Level
Co-Chairs: Jay Jordan and Christina Ortmeier-Hooper

Committee on Undergraduate Research
Thursday, March 22, 3:15–4:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Shaw Room, Mezzanine Level
Co-Chairs: Doug Downs and Jenn Fishman

30

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 30

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Index of Concurrent Sessions
Note: The number of sessions in each cluster is proportional to the number of proposals
submitted in each cluster.
1—Academic Writing
A.02 	
A.14 	
B.12 	
B.25 	
B.32 	
C.14 	
C.17 	
C.27 	
D.02 	
D.24 	
E.01 	
E.07 	

E.14 	
F.16 	
F.23 	
F.27 	
F.33 	
G.07 	
G.17 	
H.09 	
H.33 	
I.09 	
I.15 	
I.22 	
J.16 	
J.35 	

Constructing Student Identity: Honor Placement, Peer Review, and Student
Affairs Practices
Communicating in Digital Environments-Implications of the WPA Outcomes Statement
The Development of Writing Instruction in Israeli Higher Education: Issues
and Ambitions
The Composition and Rhetoric of the Writing Teacher
Conflict as Space for Agency
Teaching Reading and Writing in New Media
Learning Outside the Classroom: Academic Support Services and the Arts
Closing the Gap Between Identities and Writing in the Academy
Generation 1.5 Students’ Transition to College Reading and Writing: Strategies for Placement, Teaching, and Program Development
Reflection and Rhetorical Knowledge as Gateways to Transfer
Research, Library Reference, and Bibliographic Studies
From Assessment of ePortfolios to Assessment with ePortfolios: Fostering
Flexible, Engaged Student Writers in and across Electronic Portfolio-Based
Writing Curricula
Enter Write Here: Online Writing Placement as Portal to Academia
What IS College Readiness and How Can We Help OUR Students Get
There?
Wikipedia, Research Writing, and the People Formerly Known as the Audience: Knowledge Making, Audience, and Motivation
L2 Writing: Pedagogy and Academic Socialization
Accountability Culture and Critical Interpretation of Error
Almost There: What Works in the Dissertation Writing Institute?
Awareness: Disciplinary Differences and Critical Thinking
Expansion of Acceleration in Basic Writing – The Replication Program
Silence, Listening, Identity: Bearing Witness to Female Bodies
Acquisition and Learning in New Environments
International Studies of Literacy and Learning
Gateways to College: High School Writing Instruction and Dual-Credit
Courses
Consulting with Students about Source-Work: The Citation Project in the
Writing Center and the First-Year Writing Class
Access Happening

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 31

31

2/1/12 12:22 PM

K.12 	

Questioning The Myth of Transience for Multilingual Learners: FYC,
WAC, and EAP Perspectives on the Journey toward Advanced Literacies
K.24 	 Reconsidering Reading and Style in Composition
L.10 	 Pedagogies to Promote Deep and Critical Thinking: Feminist Freewriting,
Problem-Based Learning, and WAC/WID
L.20 	 Community Action Genres as Gateways to Civic Engagement: Transitions
from Classrooms to Campuses and Communities
M.08 	 Ruptures, Riots and Regeneration: The Epistemology of Bodies in the Gateway
M.13 	 College Level Thinking and Writing: Multidisciplinary and Cross-Contextual Perspectives
M.27 	 More than the Average Research Paper Assignment: Heuristics, FAQ and
Yoga
N.07 	 Facilitating Deep and Ethical Learning with Multimedia Assignments
N.15 	 Preparing and Supporting Graduate Student Writers Across the University
N.33 	 There’s Nothing Basic about Basic Writing
2—Community, Civic, & Public
A.03 	
A.10 	
A.24 	
B.13 	
B.17 	
B.29 	
C.02 	
C.18 	
C.24 	
D.06 	
D.23 	
E.05 	
E.16 	
E.23 	
F.12 	
F.18 	
F.28 	
G.09 	
G.16 	

The Public Work of Rhetoric: University-Community Collaborations as
Gateways
Rhetoric, Violence and Hope: The Exploration of Literacies on the Borderlands
Another C: The Complicated Institutionalization of “Community”
Improving Service Learning in Composition
Genres as Gateways to Rhetorical Action
The Heteronormative Gatekeeper: Queer (Im)Perceptibility at the Gateway
Alignment and Assessment as Gateways: High School, Community College, Neighborhood Center, and University
Civic Engagement in Responding to Crisis
Productive Tensions: The Relevance of the Federal Writers’ Project to 21st
Century America
Communication at the Threshold of Civic Change: Rural and Urban Epideictic as Transcendent Social Action
Service Learning and Engaged Scholarship: Relating People and Programs
Feminist Engagements: Community-Based Participatory Alternatives for
the Assessment Age
Making the Best Babies: Rhetoric of Perfection
Reengaging Environmental Discourses as Sites for Rhetorical Analysis,
Pedagogical Practice, and Democratic Citizenship
Rainbow Arches: Gateways or Barriers in LGBTQ Stories and Identities?
Sponsoring Literacy across Institutions, Community, and Generations
Teaching and Writing in Prison: History, Rationale and Research
Rhetorical Ethnography and the Study of Publics, Places, and Citizen
Action
Politics and Audience: LGBT Contexts

32

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 32

2/1/12 12:22 PM

G.25 	

Beyond the Classroom Walls: Redefining Literacy and Basic Writing
Through Community Engagement
H.10 	 Publics, Publishing, and the Challenges of Circulation
H.16 	 Working the Public University: Expectations, Discourses, and Practice(s) of
Teaching Writing
H.22 	 Re-reading Appalachia: Literacies of Resistance
H.24 	 Facilitative, a More Civil and Civic Discourse
I.07 	
Critical Food Literacy: New Territories of Inquiry in Rhetoric and Composition
Emotional Discourse: Rhetoric as Embodied
I.12 	
I.20 	
What I Want My Words to Do to You: Writing for Personal and Civic Transformations within Marginalized Communities
J.09 	 The Age of the Memoir: Teaching Writing in a Lifelong Learning Setting
J.17 	 Intersections of Literacy and Race in Communities
J.22 	 Is Writing Back Enough? Investigating Rhetorical Agency through Publication
J.32 	 Lessons from the Inside: Rethinking Pedagogical Concepts through the
Lens of the Prison Writing Classroom
K.07 	 It’s About Time: Learning From Failures in Civic Engagement and Community-Based Work
K.33 	 Writing within the Trope of Ruin: Loss and Rejuvenation in the Shifting
Academic Landscape in Urban America
L.14 	 Writing Beyond Publics
L.26 	 Religions Discourse, Secular Contexts
M.06 	 Immigration in the Writing Classroom
M.14 	 Rhetorical Formation of Public and Private Spheres
M.34 	 Gateways to (No) Where for Those in the Margins (?): Race, Gender, and
Class in Discourse Communities
N.05 	 Gateways to Dissent: Wisconsin Labor Protests, Civic Engagement, and
Translingual Pedagogy
N.11 	 Going Digital/Going Public: Gateways to Literacy
3—Creative Writing
A.36 	
B.18 	
C.03 	
D.07 	
E.06 	
F.02 	
G.01 	
H.01 	
I.01 	
J.11 	

Being both Personal and Academic: The Lessons of Objects
Explorations in Creative Writing Pedagogy
Three Writing Models in Three Different Programs: WID, Undergraduate
Writing Major, and Business Communications
Reflecting through Writing Assessments and Validation Research
Reframing Basic Writing and Sites of Transfer
Turning Intersections Into Gateways: A Practical Primer on “Creative Composing”
Creative Multimedia: 3D Poetry, Hypertext Narratives, and Amateur Auteurs
In Search of Wonder
Creative Writing and Lived-Experience
The Rhetorics of Writing Center Websites and Tutors

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 33

33

2/1/12 12:22 PM

K.01 	
K.34 	
L.03 	
M.02 	
N.23 	
N.29 	

The Hybrid TA: Composition, Rhetoric, and Creative Writing
Creative Gateways: How Poetry Teaches Composition
The Work of Creative Writing
Building Sustainability, Exploring Assessment and Accountability, and Addressing Institutional Demands in Writing Programs
Tentative Collaborators: Creative Writing’s Resistance toward a Dialogic
Model
Life-in-Context in First-Year Writing: Creative Nonfiction, Critically
Thought and Taught

4—History
A.16 	
A.30 	

The Use of Archival Research
Literacy Instruction from World War II to the Cold War: Boundaries, Gateways, and Legacies
B.09 	 Imagined Geographies: Basic Writing, Basic Training, and the Voices of
Captain Cook
B.19 	 With the Spirit of James A. Berlin: A Conversation on Historiographies
C.04 	 Writing and Rhetoric in Catholic Colleges
C.32 	 Literacy as Political and Economic Gateway
D.08 	 Redefining Civic Engagement: Gateway Sites of Rhetorical Education,
1845-1925
D.10 	 Literacy Origins: Narratives of Learning Sites
E.08 	 Gateways to Engaged Lives: An Exploration of Voice and Agency in Turn
of the Century Women’s Periodicals and Conferences
E.13 	 Literacy Education Outside of the Curriculum
F.03 	 Rhetorical Gateways for Writing Classes
G.02 	 Writing History in the Digital Age: New Gateways for Feminist Historiography
G.15 	 Writing Instruction, Literacy by Subscription, and Methodological Diversity
H.02 	 Mapping Entry Points of Nineteenth-Century Rhetorical Activism
H.18 	 Literacy, Genre, and Agency: Renaissance Handbooks to College Application Essays
I.02 	
Visual Gatekeepers: Nineteenth-Century Photography and the Visual Rhetoric of Exclusion
J.01 	 19th Century Women’s Rhetoricians
J.25 	 Writing the Past as a Gateway to the Future
K.09 	 Radical (Regional) Literacies
K.22 	 Opening the Doors: Higher Education in the 1960’s
L.09 	 In the Mix: Multimodal Rhetorics
L.29 	 Genres in Transition: Historicizing Women’s Rhetorical Interventions
M.04 	 Nineteenth-Century American Women’s Rhetoric at the Threshold of Industry and Professionalism
M.23 	 Gateways for Change: Appearance vs. Reality Topoi in Protest and Status
Quo Rhetoric

34

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 34

2/1/12 12:22 PM

N.04 	
N.10 	

Literacy and Reform
Women’s Rhetorical Identities

5—Information Technologies
A.11 	
A.19 	
A.26 	
B.01 	
B.15 	
B.20 	
B.24 	
C.21 	
C.31 	
C.34 	
D.15 	
D.25 	
D.27 	
E.03 	
E.19 	
E.26 	
E.32 	
F.09 	
F.24 	
F.29 	
G.11 	
G.18 	
G.21 	
H.15 	
H.20 	
H.27 	
I.18 	

The Digital Mandate: Exploring the Frontier of Code
Teaching Unplugged
Leaving Print Behind: Three Composition Journals Move Into Digital
Spaces
Multimodality, Multiliteracy, and Virtual Worlds: Remediating Our Practices
Content Management: New Gateways and Challenges of Technology in
Transition
Technology and Histories of Composition Studies
The Technological Gateway: Threshold or Barrier for Basic Writers?
Assessing the Emerging Spectrum of Tutoring Services in Digital Spaces: A
Concurrent Session
Bodies Writing in Space: Rhetorics of Natural-user Interfaces
Online Identity Construction in Video Games and Blogs
Authority through Gameplay: Video Games as Discursive Gateways
Secondary Orality and Digital Mobocracy
Digital Literacy Narratives: Authors, Audiences and Contexts
Inventing the Infinite Text: Social Media as Gateway to Theories of Collaboration
Access Denied? Universal Design, Privacy and Socio-economic Access
Hybridity as a Gateway to Learning: Transitioning Among Non-academic
and Academic Digital Composing Literacies
Multimodal Gateways, Written Destinations: Beyond New Media as Heuristic and Writing as Product
Authors, Fans and Power: Exploring the Potential of Appropriation
Technologies of Assessment: Common Outcomes, Distinct Campuses and
Multi-Institution Online Assessment
Visual Rhetorics: Delivery of Blogs, Videos, and Zooms
Classrooms, Compositions, and the Writing Center: Extending the Gateway
of Digital Technologies to Reach and Engage Student Writers
Ludic Pedagogy: Theory, Practice, Exegesis
Assessing Digital Assessment Tools: Automated Essay Evaluations of ePortfolios
Digital Intertextuality and Cultural Production: Using Critical Theories to
Produce and Question Film and Video in the Composition Classroom
Digital Transitions: What We Leave Behind When We Let Digital Technologies Write Us
Designing Engaging Writing Assignments with Video Games and Fanfiction
Placing Practitioner Knowledge Vis-à-vis the Expert Claims: Learning
About Online Writing Instruction in American Colleges

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 35

35

2/1/12 12:22 PM

I.25 	
I.30 	

Remapping Portals to the Digital Parlor
Contemporary Publication Practices as New Gateways for Writers and
Readers
Comparing Composing Strategies: Translations, Histories, and Tweets
I.31 	
J.15 	 Gateway or Gatekeeper? Critical Perspectives on the Course Management
System in Higher Education
J.20 	 Epistemological and Language Difference: Cultural Relevancy in Online
Pedagogies
K.14 	 New Gateways for Research: Digital Humanities and Writing Studies
K.27 	 Unlocking Interfaces: Rhetorical Mechanics and Multimedia Gateways
L.04 	 Privacy, Rhetoric, and Composition: Addressing the Public/Private Distinction in Digital Environments
L.11 	 Composition by Controller: Gaming Environments as Gateways to New
Discursive Spaces
L.22 	 Supporting Student Writers: Digital, Pedagogical, and Institutional Designs
M.07 	 Computational Rhetoric in Theory and Practice
M.19 	 Technologies to Successfully Mediate Online Learning
N.02 	 Networked Gateways: Composing Digital Writing Infrastructures for Transitional Learning and Civic Engagement
N.22 	 Meaning Making in Visual Rhetorics
6—Institutional and Professional
A.06 	
B.22 	
B.26 	
C.06 	
D.09 	
D.16 	
E.09 	
F.01 	
F.20 	
G.05 	
H.07 	
H.14 	

Opening the Gates between Writing Program Administration and Faculty
Development
Can Good Composition Teaching Be Done Under Present Conditions?
Restoring Trust: Validating Subjectivity, Context, and Expertise in Writing
Assessment
Defining our Discipline: Labor Practices, TA Training and Professional
Markers
Graduate Programs as Gateway to WPA Work? Or, What WPAs Don’t
Learn from School
Teaching and Administering Writing in Global Contexts
Creating A Comprehensive, Integrated Writing Infrastructure: Boundary
Objects, Boundary Encounters, and Cross-Disciplinary Negotiations
“Stretch” through the Transnational: Gateway Rhetorics in First-Year Writing
Audience and Agency: Transitioning Student-Teacher Dialogue through
Pedagogies of Inclusion
What Is Our Professionalism For? The Role of Composition and Rhetoric
Scholars in the Public Practice of K-12 Literacy Educators
A Gateway to Teaching in the Two-Year College: TYCA’s Revised Guidelines for Academic Preparation
The Comp/Rhet Gateway: Preparing MA Students for Life After the Program

36

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 36

2/1/12 12:22 PM

H.30 	

Engaging K -12 Educators in the Teaching of College Composition: Three
Avenues for Outreach, Connection, and Collaboration
From the Other Side of the Desk: The Challenges Writing Teachers Face
I.06 	
When They Move from Teacher to Tutor
Standing at the Gate: Ethics, Spirituality, and Administration
I.33 	
J.03 	 MA Programs in Rhetoric and Writing as Sites of Transition and (Trans)
Formation
J.24 	 The WPA’s First-Year: How to Listen and Act Simultaneously
K.08 	 Managing Teacher Training: Theory, Assessment and English Language
Learners
K.17 	 Flooding the Gatekeeper’s Gates: When Other People’s Children Become
Educators
L.05 	 Forming Future Basic Writing Professionals: Reports on Graduate-Level
BW Teacher Preparation Projects from Alaska, Idaho, and New York
L.07 	 At a Crossroads: Remediation, Reform, and the Public Urban University
L.17 	 New Thresholds: Writing and Communication in General Education
L.27 	 Understanding and Intervening in Institutional Polices and Practice
M.20 	 Digital Assessment: Local and Institutional
M.24 	 Lessons from History: What WPAs Can Learn from Writing Program Archival Work
N.30 	 Managing Change in Writing Programs
7—Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives
A.01 	
A.09 	
A.13 	
A.15 	
A.25 	
A.29 	
B.02 	
B.06 	
B.08 	
B.14 	
B.21 	

B.34 	
C.01 	

Performing the Archive: Practice, Stories and Materiality
Frontiers for Reading Pedagogy: First-Year Composition, Research Writing
Courses, and Writing in the Disciplines
Continual Gateways: Undergraduate Research as Category Mixing
Composing Cultures and Copyright
New Possibilities for “Competent Inquiries:” Toward Cross Contextual
Methods for Writing Studies
Fun and Games in Rhetoric and Composition Teaching and Scholarship
Enlisting the Spoken Voice in Teaching Composition and Teaching Literature
Complicating “Transfer”: Articulating Thresholds for Writing and Learning
across Disciplines
Ong at 100: New Gateways in the Scholarship of Walter J. Ong
The Architecture of Image: Building Strong Identities and PR for Professors and WPAs
Writing Secondary/Postsecondary Transitions: Toward a National Model
for Reframing the Common Core Through the Framework for Success in
Postsecondary Writing
Trajectories of Writing: Case Studies
Gateways and Barriers: Disability Policy in the Writing Classroom, Program Administration, and Composition’s Disciplinary

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 37

37

2/1/12 12:22 PM

C.08 	
C.15 	
C.22 	
C.26 	
C.28 	

D.11 	
D.14 	
D.20 	
D.22 	
D.29 	
D.34 	
E.12 	
E.15 	
E.18 	
E.25 	
E.31 	
E.33 	

F.04 	
F.10 	
F.15 	
F.19 	
F.26 	
F.32 	

G.14 	
G.22 	
G.26 	
G.31 	

Take My Words, Please: The Textual Gifts of Student Writers
The New Work of Forgery: Authenticating Identity in the Work of Writing
International Teaching of Written English: Brazil, Turkey, and Afghanistan
Girls from the Hood: Writing Gateways to Transition Low Income, FirstGeneration Women Students and Their Families for College Success
The Architecture of the ePortfolio as a Gateway to Learning in the Core
Curriculum: Responding to Instructional, Curricular, and Institutiional
Challenges
From “Black English” to World English: Multilingualism and and Multimodality in and across Local and Global Contexts
The Art and Science of Applied Rhetoric: Nursing, Marketing, and Legal
Studies
Cross-Border Collaboration in Charting a Department’s Future: Toward a
North-American Conception of Rhetoric and Writing
(Ad)Ministering to Writing through Multiple Sites: Writing Centers, Teaching Centers, and College-Wide Outcomes Assessment
Gateways into the Disciplines: Navigating Different Disciplinary Contexts
to Support Writing Across Campus
Genres in Transition (Double Session)
Transfer Theory that Transfers: Using Questions of Transferability to Learn
More than How to Teach Writing
Alignment to Assessment: Closing the Loop?
Rhetorical in Practices in Magic, Science, and Food
Synchronizing Difference: Interdisciplinary Rhetoric and Writing Courses
for First-Year Students
Ways Not Gates: Toward a Democratic Continuum of Composition Practices Twenty-five Years After the English Coalition
Writing Secondary/Postsecondary Transitions: Toward a National Model
for Reframing the Common Core Through the Framework for Success in
Postsecondary Writing
Ways of Knowing that Shape Writers and Writing
Intercultural Gateways and Comparative Critical Reflection: Effects of International Exchange on Learning and Identity Development
Digital Coaching for Measurable Outcomes in Basic Writing: Preliminary
Results from the Global Skills for College Completion
Niizh Manidoowag Gawonisgv: Two-Spirit Talk
Disrupting Composition’s Exclusions
Conclusions from a Qualitative Study of Dual Credit Writers at the Community College: What Happens When High School Students Write in a College Course?
Show Me Your Work: A Cross-Disciplinary Assessment of Undergraduate
Mathematical Research Writing
Being(s) in Transition: Rhetorical Gestures in Medical, Transnational, and
Prison Spaces
Embodied Composition: Sports, Music, and Dance
Intercollegiate Athletics: Gateway to Literacy

38

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 38

2/1/12 12:22 PM

H.12 	
H.19 	
H.25 	
H.29 	
I.10 	
I.16 	
I.26 	
I.28 	
J.02 	
J.12 	
J.26 	
K.10 	
K.16 	
K.29 	
L.01 	
L.12 	
L.21 	
L.28 	
M.03 	
M.11 	
M.18 	
M.29 	
M.33 	
N.06 	
N.12 	
N.17 	

Opening Gateways through Comparative Rhetoric: Moving between and
across Disciplinary and Cultural Boundaries
Beyond the Writing Center: Strategic Alliances with Alumni, Adult Education, and Libraries
“. . . because writing acts as a gatekeeper:” Leveraging the Common Core
State Standards to Invigorate Writing Instruction in K-12 Settings
Mediating Gateways: Rhetorical Action and Advocacy Across Communities with Student Athletes
Tutors and Mentors Across Curricular Contexts
Gateways through Silence: Arguments for Textured Perspectives Across
Discourse Communities
U.S. Composition’s Fit In The World: Internationalization’s Influence on
Theory and Pedagogy
Theory for a Sustainable Field: (Re)shaping the Contours of Systems Theory in Composition-Rhetoric
“Get me Bodied” A Call for Critical Attunement to Embodied Rhetorics
Analysis of Cross Cultural Frames and Practices
The Panel is a Gateway: Comics, Multimodal Writing, and Rhetorical Transition
Writing Groups, Writing Students, Writing Centers: Using Activity Theory
to Make Sense of Academic Gateways
Classroom Queeries: Graduate Students Respond to the Call for More
GLBTQI Inclusion within the Classroom
A High-School Initiated College Collaboration for Writing and Rhetoric:
Creating Gateways for Writing and Rhetoric-Intensive
Composing the Community Chorus: The Intersection of Rhetoric, Technical Writing, and Vocal Arts
Taking Up Empowerment: Engaging Resistance, Delinquincey, and Trauma
Rhetorics of Survivance: Challenging Boundaries of Colonial Thought in
Interdisciplinary Texts
Droopy, Performative, Mediated, Sequestered: Embodied Gateways Toward Interventionist Rhetorics
Reimagining Global Gateways: Dialogic Threads in Transnational Ecologies of Literacy
(In)Visible Gateways to Success for African-American College Students
Transforming Writing Assignments in Literature and Fine Arts: The ePortfolio as Gateway to Multimodal Learning Experiences
Navigating the Transition to Science Writing: Composition in Learning
Communities
WACs Guiding WIDs into and out of the Thickets of Writing Instruction
Composition and Interdisciplinary Practices: Renewing Possibilities for
Intra-Institutional Collaboration
Composing Borders: Metaphors of Experience
The Festering of FYC: Searching for a Multi-disciplinary Solution for the
Issue of Transfer

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 39

39

2/1/12 12:22 PM

N.21 	
N.27 	

Literacy Gateways: New Openings Across National and Disciplinary Contexts
Transnational Writing Programs

8—Language
A.05 	
B.23 	
C.07 	
D.17 	
E.10 	
F.06 	
F.37 	
G.03 	
H.05 	
I.03 	
J.07 	
K.02 	
L.24 	
N.28 	

MultimediaOnline Cases in Technical Fields: Role Playing in Multiple Perspectives across Multiple Courses as Gateway
Of Gatekeepers and Keymasters: Designing Programs and Pedagogy for
Multilingual Writers
Are We Really Down For the Get Down?: Nation Languages, Translanguages, and the Politics of Liberation
Gateways for Monolinguistic Instructors: Tailored Instruction for Bilingual
Spanish-English
Collaboratively Communicating via International Gateways: Local, Global,
Ideological, and Digital Lessons for Writing Students and Their Teachers
Reader Reception and the Construction of Identity
Vernacular Value: Assessing the Code-Switching Paradigm for Current
Writing Instruction
Language in Action: Power, Neutrality, and Translation
English Language Learning: Error, Transfer, and Teaching
Gateways and Gatekeepers to Literacy
Questioning Englishes across Contexts
“Who Left the Gate Open?”: African American Rhetorical Tradition as an
Effective Gateway for Written and Oral Communication
Multilingual Writers and Agency
Language Loss and Language Recovery on U.S. College Campuses

9— Professional and Technical Writing
A.21 	
B.04 	
C.09 	
D.18 	
E.28 	
F.07 	
G.04 	
H.04 	
I.24 	
J.05 	
K.05 	
L.30 	

Gateways to Audiences in Evolving/Complex Workplace Contexts
Medical Gateways: Ethnographic Studies of Communication Practices in
Emerging Contexts
Patient Genres as Rhetorical Sites of Agency, Resistance, and Expertise
Gateway to the Danger Zone: Technical Communication’s Considerations
of Feminisms, Relationships, Representations
Medical Rhetorics and Health Literacies
Public and Eco-Rhetorics: State Parks, Coal, and Big Oil
Promises and Perils of Social Action and Professional Writing
Professional Writing inTransition: Into the World of Work and Back Again
Technical Communication and the Environment
Reception, Risk, and Revision in Professional Communication
New Program Designs in Technical Communication
Exploring Community Standards in Science Learning Projects, Authorship,
and Grant Submissions

40

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 40

2/1/12 12:22 PM

10—Research
A.07 	
A.35 	
B.03 	
C.10 	
C.29 	
D.05 	
D.19 	
D.35 	
E.02 	
E.20 	
F.14 	
F.30 	
F.34 	
F.35 	
G.08 	
G.28 	
H.03 	
I.05 	
I.32 	
J.06 	
J.19 	
J.33 	
K.13 	
K.32 	
L.06 	
L.33 	

Transnational Writing Research: Traveling Methodologies in an Age of
Globalization
Opening Gateways Across the Curriculum: Writing about Writing and
Transfer in High School and College Courses
Revisualizing Composition One SMS at a Time: Technology, Value, and
Purpose
Gateways for Methodology: Report on a Summer Seminar for Building
Disciplinary Research Capacity
Methodological Disconnects: Tensions in Teaching, Learning, and Doing
Qualitative Research in Writing and Rhetoric
Pragmatic Inquiry as a Gate(way) to Earned Insight: Investigating Goal Setting in Writing Conferences
Understanding Students’ Source Choices: Insights from the Citation Project
and LILAC Project
Award-Winning Research in Written Communication
Transfer and Transition in WAC/WID Instruction: Research from the Dartmouth Seminar
Race-ing Cs: Rhetoric while Black
Designing Dialogic Online Composition Classes: Gateways into Academic
Writing
First Books and Second Books: SWR Authors Talk About Developing
Book-Length Projects
The Arc of Transfer: Gateway from Novice to Expert
Celebrating 25 Years of the Research Network Forum: A Continuing Gateway for Research
Argument and the Transition from High School to College: Learning from
a Large-scale Analysis of Student Writing
Responding to Writing Across the Curriculum
Global Gateways for Undergraduate Researchers: Comparative Rhetoric
Across Cultures
Resisting, Reflecting, Re-Envisioning: Writing Research across Contexts
Race, Writing Assessment, and Failure: Confronting Language Attitudes,
Testing Legacies, and Technologies
Taking a Multilingual/Translingual Approach to Teaching and Tutoring
Writing at Hispanic-Serving Institutions
New Models for Writing Instruction
Rhetorics Regulating Childhood: States of Emergency and Legal Exception
Student Attitude and Prior Knowledge in Undergraduate and Graduate
Writing
Automated Essay Scoring: Gateway to Valid Assessment, Effective Learning, or the Twilight Zone?
Writing Instruction at 101 4-Year Colleges and Universities: A View of the
Field
Interrogating the Writing Center Tutorial

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 41

41

2/1/12 12:22 PM

L.34 	 Gateways: Long-time Cs Researchers Look Backward and Forward
M.01 	 The Things They Carry: Examining the Transfer of Citation and Research
Practices From First Year Writing Programs to Graduate
M.12 	 Teaching in Transitions with L2 and Basic Writers
N.03 	 Analyzing Students’ Experiences with Writing
N.25 	 Ethics and Assessment in New Media Work
N.32 	 New Inquiries into Writing Research Traditions
11—Teaching Writing & Rhetoric
A.04 	
A.08 	
A.12 	
A.17 	
A.22 	
A.23 	
A.27 	
A.28 	
A.32 	
A.33 	
B.05 	
B.07 	
B.11 	
B.16 	
B.28 	
B.31 	
C.05 	
C.13 	
C.16 	
C.23 	
C.30 	
C.35 	
D.01 	
D.03 	
D.13 	
D.26 	

Video Projects in First-Year Writing: Three Gateway Pedagogies
Undergraduate Research as Teaching for Social Justice
Currents of Traditionalism
Jewish Rhetoric and Jewish Teaching
Who Needs Rhetoric Anyway?
Basic Writers in Transition: A Developmental Process
Multimodal Gateways: An Invitation for Reimagining Student Roles in the
Composition Classroom and Beyond
Strategies for Supporting Basic Writers: Gateways to Academic and Professional Discourse
Seeing the Unseen: Emotions and Student Writing
From Intuition to Information: How Explicit Grammatical Knowledge
Makes Better Writers and Better Writing Teachers
Writing in Place: The Importance of the Local
Regarding Religion in the Composition Classroom
Black and Brown Literacies: Gateways to Transformative Theories, Practices, and Meaningful Engagement(s)
The Liminality of Listening and Epistemologies of Sound
Playing at the Gate: Exploring the Possibilities for Play and Pleasure in
Developmental English
Through the Internets: Writing, Community, and Engagement in Online
Spaces
Bridging Spaces: Pedagogical Promises and Perils of Hybrid Course Design for First-Year Writing
Transfer: The Gateway to Writing in Multiple Contexts
L2 Students as Writers and Readers
Inviting Campus Conflict into the Classroom
Re-Visiting Stephen North’s Concept of Lore: Gateway to Writing Teacher
Agency
Reconsidering the Uses of Response
From Fifth to First: Digital Delivery Recast as Invention and Composition
Theory
Reimagining the Composition Textbook
Composing Place and Self: Travel as Metaphor and Motive for Writing
Thirdspace Portals: A Hybrid/Writing Studio Model for First-Year Composition

42

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 42

2/1/12 12:22 PM

D.28 	
D.30 	
D.32 	
D.33 	
E.04 	
E.11 	
E.17 	
E.24 	
E.27 	
E.30 	
E.34 	
F.05 	
F.11 	
F.17 	
F.25 	
F.36 	
G.06 	
G.12 	
G.19 	
G.23 	
G.27 	
G.29 	
H.06 	
H.11 	
H.17 	
H.23 	
H.26 	
H.32 	
H.34 	

I.04 	

Gateway, Wall, or Treadmill?: Does Learning from First-Year Writing
Transfer?
Moving Beyond Theory: Issues of Praxis in Wiki Instruction
Genre in the Classroom
Undergraduates Socially Constructing the English Curriculum: New Media
Writing’s Impact on the Teaching of English
Writing Across Borders
Cracking the Atoms of Rhetoric and Writing Studies: Undergraduate, Graduate, and Faculty Perspectives
Teaching in Transition: Combating Manifestations of Transience through
Reflective Shifts in Pedagogy
21st Century Literacies: Strategies for Learning The Literacies We Teach
Online Instruction: Teachers, Assessment, and The Writing Center
Making Reading Visible
Re/Visioning Student Research as Gateway: From Classroom to Public Engagement
Gateways or Grateways? Rethinking, Re-envisioning, Remediating Composition’s Materials and Practices (a New Media Spin)
Turned Away at the Gate: Reconsidering the Relationships of Composition
and Literature
Working the Edges of the Writing Classroom
“Walking Through the Gates”: Agency Developed in Place
Perspectives on The Student-Teacher Relationship
The Library, New Media and Composition Pedagogy
The Visual and the Spatial in Multiliteracies: Gateways to Rhetorial Potential
Gateways to Individuality: Embodied Pedagogies, Teacher Anecdotes, and
the Rhetorical I
The Gateway or the Gatekeeper?: Tensions Between Teachers’ Identity and
Teaching Identity at an HBCU
Alternative Performative Pedagogies
Teachers at the Center: National Writing Project Philosophy Informing University Writing Programs
New Conversations about Teachers as Writing Practitioners
Putting Ethos and Resistance to Work: Community Applications
Supporting Writing Transfer at Critical Moments: Common Core, Sophomore WAC, and Underprepared Writers
Pedagogies of Digital Affect
A Million Student-Veterans and Counting: How Veterans Are Transforming
College Writing Instruction
Generational Gates and Gateways: Examining the Divides and Discovering
Bridges
Twenty-First Century Gateways for the Classroom, the Community, and the
Public: Complicating the Research Paper, the “Service” Experience, and the
Audience
Mixing and Revising: Writers and Texts

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 43

43

2/1/12 12:22 PM

I.08 	
I.14 	
I.17 	
I.19 	
I.23 	
I.29 	
J.04 	
J.08 	
J.13 	
J.18 	
J.23 	
J.28 	
J.30 	
J.31 	
K.04 	
K.11 	
K.15 	
K.20 	
K.23 	
K.25 	
K.26 	
K.30 	
L.13 	
L.16 	
L.18 	
L.23 	
L.31 	
L.32 	
M.05 	
M.10 	
M.16 	
M.17 	

Own Who You Are: Transforming Roadblocks into Gateways for Teaching
and Learning
The Little Red Schoolhouse Online
Extending Writing-about-Writing: Scenes of WAW Beyond First-Year
Composition
Teaching Transitions: Multimodal Movements from the High School, the
Two-Year College, and the Borderlands
Access and AntConc: Using Corpus Analytic Software for Assessment and
Pedagogy
Senior Captsone Courses: Writing Gateways to Student Doing and Being
Honoring Their Histories, Their Goals, and Their Literacies: Discussions on
Basic Writing Students’ “Readiness”
Multimodal Composition and Youth Rhetorics: Gateways for Student Writing
Confronting Digital Literacy Myths in Theory and Practice
African-American Rhetoric: A Gateway for Diverse Rhetorical Instruction
in a 21st Century Composition Classroom
First-Year Writing Circa 2012: How Many Gateways? And to What?
E/Merging Technologies: Bridging Spaces; Spanning Practices
A Christian, A Muslim, and A Jew Walk into a Classroom: Religion and
Faith in First-Year Composition Courses
Plagiarism 2.0: The Techne of Thieving in a Digital Age
A Promising New Model for Basic Writing: The Accelerated Learning Program (ALP)
Pedagogies of Difference
Rhetoric, History, Culture: Connections
Ecological Approaches to Composition
Multimodality, Visual Rhetoric, and Marshall McLuhan
Teaching Meta-awareness: A Key for Students’ Transfer of Writing Knowledge Through Discursive Gateways
Ten Years after 9/11: Encounters with Islam in the Classroom
Gateways to Self and Others: Examining Contemplative Practices in the
Writing Classroom
Anti-Racist Activism and the Teaching of Writing
Opening up the Faculty Lounge: Getting Students to Think Like Teachers,
Getting Teachers to Think Like Students
Everyone Knows This is Nowhere: Writing in the Musical Age
How Gateways to Writing Can Unlock the Gates to the Academy and Professional Success
Peer Review in Various Contexts
Innovative Pedagogies: From the Digital to the Integrative
Writing and Disorder: Making the Transition into the Main Stream
Evoking and Suppressing Response
Motivation and Open Gateways: Rethinking Assignment Design, Drafting,
and Feedback Methods
Toward a Curriculum in Metaphoric Literacy

44

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 44

2/1/12 12:22 PM

M.21 	 Waiting at the Threshold: Fandom Studies at the Gate of Composition Pedagogy
M.25 	 Inclusion and Boundaries: Relational Approaches to Teaching
M.26 	 When Silence Speaks: Working First-Year Composition at the American
University of Beirut
M.28 	 The Chamber of Secrets: Unlocking Gateways to Intangible Spaces
M.30 	 Rhetoric and Embodied Performance
N.01 	 Assessing Reflection
N.09 	 The Rhetorical Writing Classroom and It’s Challenges
N.13 	 Stories about Race, Stories about Class: Using Narrative to Write the Whole
Person
N.14 	 Writing Personally and Ethnically
N.18 	 Digital Composing and Usability
N.24 	 Academic Honesty: Truth and Pedagogical Response
N.26 	 Voice and Writers’ Development
N.31 	 Using Internet Technologies In The Classroom As New Entryways To Composition
12—Theory
A.18 	
A.31 	
B.10 	
B.30 	
B.33 	
B.35 	
C.12 	
C.20 	
C.25 	
C.33 	
D.04 	
E.22 	
E.29 	
F.13 	
F.22 	
F.31 	
G.13 	

Composition as Ethical Negotiation of Constraints
New Presences of the “Words”: Re-Examining Walter Ong’s Work as a Disciplinary/Interdisciplinary Gateway
The Art of Affiliative (Dis)position: Pursuing a Joyful Commitment to Social Justice
Gateway Paths for Negotiating the Middle: When Opposing Sides Clash,
Introducing Rhetorical Strategies Beyond Logos
Pious Users, Automated Authors: Cultural Gatekeeping in Technological
Documentation and Form
Legacies, Gateways, and the Future of Literacy Studies
Genre—A User’s Guide: Applying Genre Theory to Problems of Communication, Teaching, and Testing
Poststructural and Posthuman Rhetorics
Procedures, Play, and Possibility Spaces
Imports/Exports: The Rhetorical Valences of Twenty-First Century Gateways
Threshold Spaces: Rhetoric and Contested Identity
Composing Lived Time in a Material Form
Old + Old + Old = New: Interrogating New Gateways between Traditional
Indigenous Knowledges and Contemporary Composing Practices
From Page to Screen: Composition and Media Convergence
Affect, Embodiment, and the Tensions of “Unruly” Rhetorical Writing Pedagogy
Rereading the Fathers: Performatively, Queerly, and Ecologically
Difference, Identity, and Habits of Mind

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 45

45

2/1/12 12:22 PM

G.20 	

Encountering the Visual: Rhetorical Stances of Skepticism, Cynicism, and
Iconoclasm
G.33 	 Teaching/Theorizing Language as a Local Practice
H.13 	 Latour and Rhetoric: Kairos, Contingency, Techne
H.21 	 Performance and Voice in the Acts of Rhetoric and Writing
H.31 	 Rhetorics of Social Consciousness, Economics, and Labor
I.13 	
Historical and Cultural Perspectives on the Rhetoric of Rationality: Disciplinary and Scholarly Gateways As Failed Democratic Organization
Theorizing Cultural Difference from Diverse Sites of Practice
I.21 	
J.14 	 Imagining Ann Berthoff’s “Mysterious Barricades” as a Passage through
Constructivist Dilemmas
J.27 	 Argument, Authorship, and Plagiarism in Digital Realms
K.03 	 Gateways Through the Apocalypse: a Panel Response to Richard Miller’s
Writing at the End of the World
K.21 	 Departures (of/from) Post-Process
K.28 	 Maintaining Civil Discourse Among Rhetorics of Belief
L.02 	 Our Actions Are “Our” Own: Rhetorical Agency as Emergent, Enacted, and
Embodied
L.15 	 Equity, Pain, and Resilience in the Classroom
M.15 	 Memory, Collection, and the Digital Environment
M.22 	 Don’t Crash the Gates, Craft Them!: Reconsidering the Craft of Writing
M.32 	 Voice, Space, and Narrative
N.16 	 Writing Thresholds: The Place-ness of Transfer across Brain, Body, and
World
N.20 	 Rhetorics of Affect, Empathy, and Action
13—Writing Programs
A.20 	
A.34 	

Finding Productive Writing Pedagogies in WAC and Writing Programs
Next Step: Outcomes for Majors in Writing and Rhetoric. A Roundtable
Discussion
B.27 	 The Vertical Writing Curriculum: Using Reaccreditation to Integrate and
Align Writing Instruction
C.11 	 Using Disciplinary Writing Assignments to Assess Institutional Outcomes
C.19 	 TheTransition to Parentheses: New Boundaries for a Non-Tenure Track
Writing Program
D.12 	 Gateways to Response Strategies That Work for Our Students AND for
Ourselves: Exploring New Territory for Novice and Experienced Teachers
D.21 	 Directed Self-Placement: Widening Institutional Gateways
D.31 	 Checking Up on Wired Writing Programs: Emerging Perspectives on Program-Wide Technology Integration
E.21 	 Writing Centers as Ideal Sites of Knowledge Transfer and Disciplinary
Translation
F.08 	 Rhetorical Routes to Revision: Developing a University Writing Program
Amidst General Education Reform

46

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 46

2/1/12 12:22 PM

F.21 	
G.10 	

Cross-cultural Dialogues in Classrooms and Writing Centers
Placing ‘Choice’: Agency, Remediation, and Whiteness in Directed SelfPlacement at California State University, Fresno
G.24 	 Unseen Gateways in First Year Writing: FLCs, ‘General Writing,’ and TA
Authority
G.30 	 A Two Way Street: Community Programming and First-Year Writing
G.34 	 Classical Rhetoric for the Modern Writing Center
H.08 	 The Consortium for the Study of Writing Survey as a Gateway to Writing
Assessment, Faculty Development, and Program Building: A Comparative
Perspective
H.28 	 At the Threshold of Transformation: Two-Year College Writing Programs
in Transition
Telling Our Story: Developing a Writing Studio Program to Support Basic
I.11 	
Writing
Collaboratively Redesigning First-Year Composition in Digital EnvironI.27 	
ments: A Gateway for Student Success
J.10 	 Assessing Student Writing When Convergent Media and Visual Rhetoric
Change the Evaluative Interface
J.21 	 Perceptions Are Gatekeepers: Exploring Ways To Increase Student Engagement With The Writing
J.29 	 Cuny’s Assessment of Academic Writing Proficiency-A Case Study
K.06 	 Constructing the Gates: Structures for Success in International and Domestic Service Learning Initiatives
K.18 	 The Information Literacy Lab: A Partnership between First-Year Writing
and the Library
K.19 	 Institutional and Civic Responsibilities to “Warrior Writers” in the Writing
Classroom: Initial Findings of a CCCC Research Grant Study
L.08 	 Still Trying to Break Our Bonds: Lessons from an Ongoing Struggle for
Writing Program Independence
L.19 	 Gateways and Transitions: Exploring Advanced Composition and Writing
Tracks/Majors/Programs
L.25 	 Composing and Collaborating in a Digital World: Transitioning Spaces to
Multiliterate Writing Centers and Classrooms
M.09 	 (Re)Structuring Gateways in a Community College: Using a Title III Grant
to Increase Access to “College-Level” Composition
M.31 	 Is the Next America Totally WACked?
N.08 	 “It gets better,” or does it?: Lessons for/from Anti-bullying Activism in
the WPA Context, Or Moving Toward A Theory and Ethics of Combating
Everyday Harassment

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 47

47

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Pre-convention
Workshops and Meetings
Wednesday, March 21
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
MEETING OF THE CCCC EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

NCTE/NCATE Reviewers Training
Renaissance Hotel, Pershing Room, Lobby Level
8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m.
THE RESEARCH NETWORK FORUM
Celebrating our 25th Year
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon E, Second Floor
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Co-Chairs: Gina M. Merys, Creighton University, Omaha, NE
Risa P. Gorelick, College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ
As a Forum devoted to research across a wide range of educational sites and activities, we are excited by the opportunities inherent in this call. Our researchers explore
and interrogate the social constructs of race, gender, class, ethnicity, and authority
as they emerge in and impact our teaching, our students’ potential participation in
the public sphere, and the gateways of national, state, and local policies that have an
impact on the students we teach in our classrooms and beyond. This work necessarily involves fundamental concerns with interdisciplinary research, and increasingly,
it demands a focus on the ways in which new media technologies shape both our
social discourse and our educational practices. As in the past, we will be drawing on
a number of different kinds of research that explore not only language education in
the traditional classroom, but also the broad range of public discourse activities that
might be affected by the success or failure of our classroom and institutional efforts.
The researchers who gather with us are deeply involved with both the abstract theories and the particular, concrete, and social instances of what it means to write, to
teach, or to learn writing, and to develop literacy not only as a technical achievement
but as active social knowledge that enhances our changing identities. The kinds of

48

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 48

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

teaching and learning we explore include everything from traditional textual literacy
to emergent cyber-literacy, as well as a range of related discourse practices and cultural relationships that help to construct the social and institutional realities of that
teaching and learning. Ultimately, our research asks us to identify the fundamental
ethical issues involving the goals of education. Thus, we are always seeking ways
to “consider what it means to move into and through our work with writing and
rhetoric, in all its forms, purposes, and contexts” (2012 CCCC CFP). By creating and
monitoring gateways to envision our future as well as seeing and extending what has
been left behind, we enrich our shared communities through promoting research of
work-in-progress presenters at RNF and throughout the field.
Toward this end, 2012 plenary speakers include the following three research talks:
	 •	 Rebecca Moore Howard and Sandra Jamieson, “Take a Deep Breath and
Jump: Doing Data-Driven Research When You Aren’t Trained in Data-Driven
Methods”
	 •	 Charlie Lowe and Pavel Zemlianski, “Open Educational Resource (OER)
Projects as Alternative Publication Sites for Writing Teachers”
	 •	 Rich Haswell, “CompPile, Writing Studies, and Obligatory Misknowledge”
The Research Network Forum Executive Committee has invited the above speakers
whose expertise covers a wide range of experience in composition studies, rhetoric,
and communication technologies, while also addressing the social, cultural, and ethical challenges facing our discipline in its role of active service to our society. Plenary
speakers will focus on specific research-related issues that represent individual areas
of expertise and interest, but all will be guided by the overall program concern with
the contributions and implications of research for the general renewal of our discipline and its efforts to serve students, colleagues, schools and communities.
These research topics will lay the foundation for the day’s thematic table groupings that will explore relationships among the variance of research currently occurring in the field by both newer researchers and more experienced researchers.

ATTW Meeting
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Consortium of Doctoral Programs In Rhetoric and
Composition
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.
Chair: Cynthia L. Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
The Consortium of Doctoral Programs in Rhetoric and Composition, representing
over 70 universities, has met since 1992 at CCCC and most recently as a Caucus on
Wednesday afternoon. CCCC is home for our annual meeting, and we use this forum

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 49

49

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30–5:00 p.m.

to link doctoral education with the discipline, with masters and undergraduate organizations, and with local and national projects of interest.
For the 2012 CCCC Program, we offer a two-part caucus that opens with several
short, informal presentations on “Responding Productively to International/ Transnational/Multinational/Global Trends,” an effort to re-imagine U.S. doctoral programs
vis-Ã -vis contemporary changes in the global eduscape. Discussion will follow.
After this portion of the meeting, we will conduct our annual business meeting,
which consists of reports from the consortium officers, elections of new officers,
planning for the next CCCC, and ideas about connecting with stakeholder groups
inside and outside of CCCC.
We invite CCCC members to join us for the presentations, discussion, and meeting. We will be using the CDPRC listserv and other forums to invite participation in
this session and to attend the Consortium business meeting.

Qualitative Research Network Forum
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
1:30–5:00 p.m.
Co-Chairs: Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Kevin Roozen, Auburn University, AL
The Qualitative Research Network (QRN) provides mentoring and support of qualitative researchers at all levels of experience, at all stages of the research process, and
in all areas of study within the college composition community. The QRN session
for 2012 offers a keynote address followed by a series of research roundtables where
new and veteran qualitative researchers present their work-in-progress for discussion
and feedback. This year’s keynote presentation features Professor Paul Prior of the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Titled “Refining Theory and Methods
through Qualitative Research: Tales from the Field,” Prior’s talk will reflect on two
decades of situated research on literate activity to examine the role qualitative inquiry plays in refining theory and method. Following a short break, the remainder
of the QRN session features research roundtables where emerging and experienced
qualitative researchers present their work-in-progress for small-group discussion and
feedback facilitated by QRN mentors. Roundtable discussions will address specific
concerns relevant to each presenter’s work-in-progress as well as broader issues related to qualitative inquiry.
	 All CCCC attendees are invited to attend the keynote address and/or the works-inprogress presentations.
Keynote Speaker: Paul Prior, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Refining
Theory and Methods through Qualitative Research: Tales from the Field”

50

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 50

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30–6:15 p.m.

Poet-to-Poet Wednesday Event
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
1:30–5:00 p.m.
Co-Chairs: Mary Minock, Madonna University, Livonia, MI
Katherine Durham Oldmixon, Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX
Join the Wednesday Afternoon Exultation of Larks: Poet-to-Poet Event. Bring 10
copies of one or two pages of original poetry in progress for insightful and constructive feedback. This workshop is not limited to readers at the Friday Exultation of
Larks. There is no fee for this event. We particularly welcome CCCC member poets
who are novices.

Intellectual Property in Composition Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
2:00–5:30 p.m.
Co-Chairs: Traci Zimmerman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
Martine Courant Rife, Lansing Community College, MI
Since 1994, the Caucus on Intellectual Property and Composition/Communication
Studies (CCCC-IP) has sponsored explorations of intellectual property issues pertinent to teachers, scholars, and students. Meeting in roundtables, participants discuss
topics such as plagiarism and authorship, student and teacher IP rights, open access and open source policies, and best practices in teaching students and instructors
about IP. Roundtable speakers provide overviews of their topics, and participants
then create action plans, develop lobbying strategies, and produce documents for
political, professional, and pedagogical use. At the end of the workshop, participants
reconvene to share their plans and recommendations for future action.

Newcomers’ Orientation
America’s Convention Center, Room 230/231, Level 2
5:15 p.m.–6:15 p.m.
Rhetoricians for Peace–Understanding and Challenging
the Rhetoric of Neo-liberalism: Obama, Economic Literacy,
and Civic Discourse
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
6:00–10:00 p.m.
Chair: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Labor issues have been a concern for the field of composition studies for over 25
years. Despite the efforts by both NCTE and MLA, the percentage of part-time adjuncts teaching first-year composition sections has in fact only steadily increased so
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 51

51

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 6:30–8:30 p.m.

that now over 80% of all FYC courses are taught by contingent faculty. Tenure-track
positions are in a steady decline and many graduates from doctoral programs have
been funneled into full-time non-tenure-track positions that offer little pay and even
less job security. At the same time, the work required of compositionists has intensified with many programs now requiring a 4-4 teaching load along with research
and service. Administration of both writing programs and writing centers is increasingly being undertaken by assistant professors, on the tenure track or not, who often
find themselves in a tenuous position as they work to maintain the standards of our
field—keeping caps below 25, using portfolios and other assessment tools to evaluate student writing rather than measure grammatical competence, training writing
tutors in writing process rather than proofreading, etc. Yet the resources and options
for improving working conditions in higher education across the nation are threatened by recent legislation (such as in Ohio and Pennsylvania) that limits collective
bargaining rights and access to meaningful unionization. We are, in many ways, a
field in crisis.

Master’s Degree Consortium of Writing Studies Specialists
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
6:30 p.m.–8:30 p.m.
Co-Chairs: John Dunn, Jr., Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
MA programs (those either fully or partially focused on composition and rhetoric)
that are independent of PhD programs serve a variety of needs for local student populations, needs that are often distinct from MA programs linked to PhD programs. The
Master’s Degree Consortium of Writing Studies Specialists meets annually at CCCC.
Its goals are defined primarily by the needs and demands of those of us working in
MA-granting, non-PhD departments. The Consortium serves as a clearinghouse and
advocacy network to strengthen our programs, promote the value of the MA degree,
foster effective articulation between MA-only programs and PhD programs in writing studies, and help undergraduate advisors direct students to MA programs.

Coalition of Women Scholars in the History of Rhetoric
and Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A/B,
Second Floor
6:30–8:30 p.m.
Chair: Nancy Myers, Coalition President, “Women Reading and Writing Women:
Recent Trends in Feminist Scholarship”
Keynote Speakers: Kristie S. Fleckenstein, Florida State University, “Can You Picture That? Visual Imagery at the Interface”
Sue Hum, University of Texas at San Antonio, “Dance of Bodies, Dance of Words:
The Rhetoric of Difference”
Rebecca Richards, St. Olaf College, “The Transnational Turn of Feminist Rhetorics
and Composition”
52

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 52

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

By examining the feminist relationship of the self in scholarship, the three speakers
discuss visual, ethnic, and transnational rhetorics in answering the question from
the 2012 CCCCs call: “What scholarly and methodological gateways has the field
constructed, and do they limit or open up possibilities for inquiry?” These scholars
address their professional commitment to these chosen fields, the field’s potential
for the discipline, and areas of future research. These women represent advanced,
middle, and beginning career moments and a range of institutional locations.
	 The second part of the session consists of the Coalition’s traditional mentoring
groups led by Coalition members and disciplinary leaders such as Nan Johnson, Lynee Gaillet, Krista Ratcliffe, and others. Topics of these mentoring groups include
Transforming the Dissertation; Designing Proposals for Fellowships and Grants;
Coming Up for Tenure in the 21st Century; Publishing Options and Opportunities;
Working in Digital Spaces; and other professional subjects.

Public Image of the Two-Year Colleges: Hallmarks of Fame
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom C, Second Floor
6:30–7:30 p.m.
Chair: Sterling Warner, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
This SIG session will examine the previous year’s research (April 2011 to March
2012) on positive mass media portrayals of two-year colleges, students, and faculty
to determine the annual Fame Award winner.
	 At the 2011 CCCC in Atlanta, the Public Image of Two-Year Colleges Session
facilitated presentations, scrutinized various forms of mass media, and engaged in
a forum to continue the yearly discussion on the best examples of two-year college
media coverage. After considering numerous submissions (hard copy, soft copy, film
clips, and so on), committee members and session participants determined this year’s
Awards by consensus.
	 FAME: The 2011 TYCA Fame award went to Zach Miners who wrote “Obama
Touts Community Colleges,” an article that appeared in the October 7, 2010 edition of US New and World Report. Therein, Miners highlighted a diverse, positive
recognition of community colleges, their vital mission, and the students they serve.
Miners’ notes that:
•	 According to President Obama, “Community colleges are the ‘unsung heroes’
of the American education system.”
•	 “Almost half of all college students in the United States attend community college.”
•	 Minor cites Dr. Jill Biden who claims that “community colleges are at the center of America’s efforts to educate our way to a better economy.”
•	 “Others laud the Obama effort to shine a light on a sector of higher education
that too often gets short shrift, but they argue that graduation rates and numbers
are getting too much attention while the learning that goes on inside the classroom isn’t getting enough.”
•	 Minor quotes Pete Katopes, Interim President of New York’s LaGuardia Community College explaining how Obama’s emphasis on community colleges is

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 53

53

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

not a swipe against four-year institutions but an honest recognition of the ability of community colleges to train “technicians, managers, nurses, and other
skilled professionals that the country needs.”
SHAME: The 2011 Shame Award went to Jan Brewer, governor of Arizona, who,
according to the Douglas Dispatch on January 19, 2011, in Phoenix:
•	 “Wants to cut state funding for universities by 20 percent and aid to community
colleges by about half to aid with a $1.1. billion deficits this coming fiscal year.
As noted by John Arnold, Brewer’s budget director:
•	 “There is going to be reform on how we provide higher education in this state.”
•	 Community colleges now get more than $132 million. That will drop to $64
million.
•	 Governor Brewer argues that “community colleges can look to local tax dollars
and tuition increases to make up for the loss.”
•	 There are no new tax dollars proposed or an extension of a temporary one-cent
sales tax.
•	 Arnold also claims that Governor Brewer “presumes the colleges will be able to
keep overall spending the same with increases in cash from both sources-taxes
and tuition.
•	 Skyrocketing tuition at many Arizona Community Colleges limits accessibility

54

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 54

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Note: Each workshop has an enrollment limit of 50 unless otherwise shown. These
workshops are designed for maximal interaction between leaders and registrants.
In fairness to those who have paid an additional fee (separate from the convention
registration fee) for the special experience these workshops offer, no one can be admitted for a workshop once its registration limit has been reached.

Morning: 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
MW.2	 Assessing Transfer: Using Reflection to Evaluate
Transfer at Critical Transitions
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Co-Chairs: Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Dave MacKinder, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
David Slomp, University of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada
Kara Taczak, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ
Bob Broad, Illinois State University, Normal
Joe Paszek, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Thomas Trimble, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Jared Grogan, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Wendy Duprey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Adrienne Jankens, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Julie Mix-Thibault, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Heidi Kenaga, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI

MW.3	 Gateways to the Past: Conducting Archival Research
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Co-Chairs: Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Newton, MA
Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, NH
Speakers: Michael DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Jessica Enoch, The University of Pittsburgh, PA
David Gold, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, City University of New York, NY
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College, Danielson, CT
Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina, Greensboro

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 55

55

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Margaret Strain, University of Dayton, OH
Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, SC

MW.4 	 50 Ways to Leave the Five-Paragraph Essay: Challenging
Traditional Rhetoric through the Creation of Digital
Writing Assignments for First-Year Writing Students
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Brian Lewis, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Speakers: Gordon Pueschner, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Brian Lewis, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Laurie Lykken, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Chris Weyandt, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Jacqueline Arnold, Minnesota State University-Mankato
Dana Bruhn, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN

MW.5 	 Making Translingual Pedagogies a Reality: Redesigning
Syllabi, Assignments, Feedback, and Program Mission
Statements
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Co-Chairs: Angela Dadak, American University, Washington, DC
Maria Jerskey, LaGuardia CC/City University of New York, NY
Sarah Nakamaru, Borough of Manhattan Community College (City University), New York, NY
Speakers: Maria Jerskey, LaGuardia CC/City University of New York, NY
Sarah Nakamaru, Borough of Manhattan Community College (City University, New York, NY
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro
Todd Ruecker, University of Texas at El Paso
Thomas Lavalle, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden
Jonathan Hall, York College–SUNY, NY
Tanita Saenkhum, Arizona State University, Tempe
Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Kacie Kaiser, Arizona State University, Tempe

56

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 56

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

MW.6 	 Yours, Mine, and Ours: Co-Constructing a Scholarship
Ethic with Students and Faculty
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Speakers: Irwin Weiser, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Julia Austin, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Jennifer Greer, University of Alabama at Birmingham

MW.7 	 Casting Gateways: Practical and Theoretical
Applications of Screen Recording for Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom A, Second Floor
Speakers: Spencer Schaffner, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Chidsey Dickson, Lynchburg College, VA
Erich Werner, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Jason Loan, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Sydney Stegall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Daniel Anderson, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Phil Sandick, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

MW.8 	 Becoming “Engaged”: Service-Learning and Civic
Engagement in Program and Course Design
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder
Speakers: Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Food and
Civic Engagement: A First-Year Writing and Rhetoric Curriculum”
John Ackerman, University of Colorado, Boulder, “The Public Work of Rhetoric: Institutional and Economic Relevance”
Petger Schaberg, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Video Partnerships: Digital Gateways to Civic Engagement in First-Year Writing”
Ginger Knowlton, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Poetics of Place: Ecocomposition and Experiential Learning”
Sally Green, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Learning Teacher Ethos: Science and Engineering Students Open the Gate to At-Risk High Schools”
Christine Macdonald, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Grant Writing:
Navigating Professional and Academic Genres”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 57

57

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

MW.9 	 Unsustainable: Owning Our Best, Short-Lived Efforts at
Community Work
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Laurie Cella, Shippensburg University, PA
Speakers: Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, MA
Elenore Long, Arizona State University, Tempe
Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, Miami
Michael Donnelly, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Jennifer Clifton, Arizona State University, Tempe
Karen Johnson, Shippensburg University, PA

58

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 58

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

All-Day Wednesday Workshops
9:00–5:00 p.m.
W.1 	 Writing Teachers Writing: Deepening Our Passion for Our
Own Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, KY
Speakers: Sandee McGlaun, Roanoke College, Salem, VA, “Where I Write”
Rebecca Blevins Faery, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
“Family History”
Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT, “Writing about an Emotion”
Mike Heller, Roanoke College, Salem, VA, “The Zebra Finch’s Song for
Life”
Jenny Spinner, St. Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA, “Snapshots”
Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO, “Rant”
Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, KY
Lynn Z. Bloom, University of Connecticut, Storrs, “Taken for Granted”

W.2 	 Rhetoric and Composition Pedagogy and Scholarship in
the Context of Globalization: Emerging Globally
Networked Learning Environments as New Gateways
for Theory, Research, and Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Doreen Starke-Meyerring, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada
Speakers: Christine Alfano, Stanford University, CA, “The Cross-Cultural
Rhetoric Project”
Alyssa O’Brien, Stanford University, CA, “The Cross-Cultural Rhetoric
Project”
Suzanne Blum Malley, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, “The Sharing Cultures Project”
TyAnna Herrington, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, “The Global Classroom Project”
Bruce Maylath, North Dakota State University, Fargo, “The Transatlantic
Project”
Lisa McNair, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Across Cultures, Across Disciplines”
Marie Paretti, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Across Cultures, Across Disciplines”
David Alan Sapp, Fairfield University, CT, “Global Partnerships for Social
Justice”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 59

59

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Jennifer Craig, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, “A
WAC Partnership as a Part of the Singapore-MIT Alliance”
Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “A WACEFL Collaboration between MIT and Two Mexican Universities”
Paul Anderson, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Peer Review across Cultures”
Linda Bradley, Chalmers University, Gothenberg, Sweden, “Peer Review
Across Cultures”
Respondents: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University, Tempe
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY
Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis

W.3 	 Assessing Multimodal Assignments
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair: Lee Odell, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY
Speakers: Susan Katz, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Matt Barton, St. Cloud State University, MN
Dirk Remley, Kent State University, OH
Matt Paproth, Georgia Gwinnett College, Lawrenceville
Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh

W.4 	 Teaching, Research, and Service at the Two-Year College
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin-Marathon County, Wausau
Speakers: Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin-Marathon County,
Wausau
Gregory Shafer, Mott Community College, Flint, MI
Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Jeff Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Leslie Roberts, Oakland Community College, Bloomfield, MI
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin-Marathon County, Wausau
David Lydic, Austin Community College, TX

60

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 60

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.5 	 Gateways, Thresholds, and Portals: Dialogues about International Higher Education Writing Research
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level

Chairs: Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, CT
Christiane Donahue, Dartmouth/Théodile, Hanover, NH
Yuehai (Mike) Xiao, New York University, New York
Speakers: Erdem Akbas, University of York, England, “A Cross-Cultural
and Cross-Linguistic Study: Metadiscourse in MA Dissertation Abstracts”
Neval Avci, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Nationalism 101: Writing Instruction in the Turkish Higher Educational System”
Melanie Brinkschulte, University of Goettingen International Writing Center, Goettingen, Germany, “Looking Inside and Outside:Bicultural Academic Writing Partnerships”
Yasemin Bayyurt, Bogazici University, Istanbul, Turkey, “Metadiscoursal
Features in Learner Corpora”
Isabelle Delcambre, Université de Lille-Nord de France, Lille, France,
“University Literacies: A Research Field for Describing Students and
Faculty Perceptions about Writing”
Heather Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, “‘Inorganic
Chemists won’t remember the Physics!’: Claims, Evidence, and Argument in Nanotechnology and Its Contributing Disciplines”
Kathy Harrington, London Metropolitan University, England, “Investigating the Value of Collaborative Peer Writing Tutorials: Learning from
Experiences in the UK”
Rich Rice, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Research Reading, Writing,
and Teaching in India Using ‘Glocalized’ New Media Approaches”
Noreen Lape, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA, “Going Global: The Development of a Multilingual Writing Center”
Anne McCabe, St. Louis University, Madrid, Spain, “European ‘Can Do’
Statements: Reflection and Self-Assessment in the First-Year Writing
Classroom”
Brian Paltridge, University of Sydney, Australia, “Researching Doctoral
Writing in the Visual and Performing Arts: What Textography Affords”
Boba Samuels, Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada,
“Writing and Reading Texts in a Cnadian Anthropology Department:
Students’ Tentative Movement between the Boundaries”
Visit www.ncte.org/cccc/conv for additional speaker names

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 61

61

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.6 	 Gateways, Gates, and Gatekeeping: Mentoring and
Diversity as a Feminist Future
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chairs: Patti Hanlon-Baker, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Tammie Kennedy, University of Nebraska at Omaha
Lindsay Russell, University of Washington, Seattle
Jason Barrett-Fox, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Speakers: Roxanne Mountford, University of Kentucky, Lexington, “Feminist Models for Mentoring Relationships”
Julie Jung, Illinois State University, Normal, “Feminist Rhetorics and Open
Systems Theory: Rethinking Agentic Capacity”
Jennifer Seibel Trainor, San Francisco State University, CA, “Race and
Whiteness in the Academy”
Karen Kopelson, University of Louisville, KY, “Feminisms and Queer
Theory”
Beverly Moss, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “African American
Women Scholars”

W.7 	 Gathered at the Gate: Basic Writing in Evidence
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chairs: J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, Long Island
City, NY
Hannah Ashley, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY, “Relocating Basic
Writing”
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Independent Scholar, Forest Hills, NY, “Gathered
at the Gate”
Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, Baltimore, MD
William B. Lalicker, West Chester University, PA
Heidi Johnsen, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY, Long Island City,
NY
Michelle Zollars, Patrick Henry Community College, Martinsville, VA
Gregory Glau, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff
Sarah Kirk, University of Alaska Anchorage

62

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 62

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.8 	 Co-Imagining Cultural Rhetorics: Practice, Performance
and Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chairs: Donnie Johnson Sackey, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Andrea Riley Mukavetz, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Madhu Narayan, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Matthew W. Novak, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Doug Schraufnagle, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Martine Courant Rife, Lansing Community College, MI
Timothy Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY
Casie Cobos, Texas A&M University, College Station
Angela Haas, Illinois State University, Normal, Illinois
Daisy Levy, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing

W.9 	 Play/Write 4.0: Alternate Reality Games and Composition
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
Chairs: Douglas Eyman, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, MD
Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Baker College of Allen Park, MI
Wendi Sierra, North Carolina State University, Raleigh

W.10 	 Opening Prison Gates: Creating, Sustaining, Researching,
and Extending Literacy Programs behind Bars
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby
Level
Chairs: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,
NY
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, MI
Speakers: William (Buzz) Alexander, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
“Prisons Are Limits, Blocks, Barriers; Workshops are Openings, Doors,
Dances”
Stacy Bell McQuaide, Oxford College of Emory University, GA, “Corpses in My Yard: The Challenge and Necessity of Writing Instruction in
Prison”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 63

63

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “From the Pacific to
the Atlantic and Everywhere In-Between: The Challenge of Publishing
Prison Writing”
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boynton Beach, “‘Read and
Watch’: Building a Book Club with Incarcerated Juveniles”
Tom Kerr, Ithaca College, Syracuse, NY, “Prison Writing and Critical Literacy”
Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, “Ethnography of the Prison”
Scott Whiddon, Transylvania University, Lexington, KY, “Prisons and
Pedagogies: Reflections on Designing a Short-term Course on Prison
Rhetoric”
Cory Holding, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Rhetoric and
Performance in Prison”
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA, “Developing CollegePrison Connections”
Barbara Roswell, Goucher College, Baltimore, MD, “Go Where the Way Is
Open: Creating Sustainable Institutional Partnerships”
Rebecca Ginsburg, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Creating
and Sustaining a Prison Education Program”
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY,
“Prison Writing: Research Issues and Challenges”

W.11 	 Convergence in the Classroom: Exploring New Media in
Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chairs: Christina Jones, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Hari Stephen Kumar, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
John Gallagher, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Anne Bello, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Sarah Dwyer, Ivy Tech Community College, Elkhart, IN
Neelofer Qadir, University of Massachusetts, Amherst

W.12 	 Cutting/Moving/Singing/Drawing through the Hype:
Writing Actions and Activities in Multimodal Composing
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Kevin Brock, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Matt Davis, Florida State University, Tallahassee
David Gruber, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Kati Fargo Ahern, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Robin Oswald, University of North Carolina at Pembroke

64

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 64

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.13 	 Space, Portal, Passage: Invention and the Near Invisible
Renaissance Hotel, Hawthorn Room, 21st Floor
Speakers: Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Sarah Arroyo, California State University, Long Beach
Jason Wirtz, Hunter College, New York, NY
Steve Lessner, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Nancy DeJoy, Michigan State University, East Lansing

W.14 	 Veterans in Writing-Intensive Courses: Higher Education
as a Gateway or Gatekeeper? A Workshop for Composition Teachers, Scholars, and WPAs
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chairs: Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Carla Maroudas, Mt. San Jacinto Community College, San Diego, CA
Speakers: Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Demographics and Pragmatics: Who are Student-Veterans, and Why Are So Many
Enrolling in Colleges and Universities Now”
D. Alexis Hart, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “What Do Faculty
and Administrators Need to Know about the Post-911 GI Bill, the VA,
and Mid-semester Deployments?”
Lydia Wilkes, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Warrior Ethos, Warrior
Ethics: What Can Military Culture Teach Us about Veterans in the Writing Classroom?”
Sandra Jang, United States Military Academy Preparatory School, West
Point, NY, “Multimodal Composition and the Traditional Essay: What
We Can Learn from Veterans”
Catherine St Pierre, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “The Veterans
Learning Community and Vets 4 Vets: Gateways to Community and
Success in the University”
Tara Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Signature Wounds: Marking, Mainstreaming, and Medicalizing Post 9/11 Veterans”
Tifarah Hadassah O’Neill, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Bridging the Civilian/Student-Veteran Divide”
Erin Hadlock, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “From Rucksack to
Backpack: The Rhetorical and Genre Knowledge that Veterans Bring to
Writing Classes”
Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Texas Woman’s University, Lewisville, “Veterans
in Writing-Intensive Courses”
Karen Springsteen, SUNY Potsdam, NY, “Veterans’ Community Writing
Groups”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 65

65

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Kathryn Broyles, American Public University System, Bartlett, TN, “Online Learning at Home and on the Front Line: Digital Classrooms for
Deployed and Returning Military and Their Families”
Bob Hazard, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL, “From Combat to Classroom: Assisting Veterans in Transition”

W.15 	 Writing Transitions and Rhetorical Partnerships Across
Elementary, Secondary, and Post-Secondary Levels
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

		

Co-Chairs: Pamela Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
Maja Wilson, University of Maine, Orono
Speakers: Maja Wilson, University of Maine, Orono
Pamela Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
Nancy Patterson, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI
Leigh Ryan, University of Maryland, College Park,
Amber Jensen, Edison High School, Alexandria, VA
Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi, University
Cynthia Miecznikowski, University of North Carolina-Pembroke
Melody Wise, Glenville State College, WV
Carrie Wastal, University of California-San Diego
James Uhlenkamp, Graceland University, Lamoni, LA

66

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 66

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Afternoon 1:30–5:00 p.m.
AW.1 	 Climbing over the Gate, Digging under the Gate,
Busting through the Gate: How to Address Plagiarism
as an Educational Opportunity
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Speakers: Gerald Nelms, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University, OH
Carole Clark Papper, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY

AW.2 	 Understanding Students’ Use of Sources through
Collaborative Research: The Citation Project and Beyond
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Chair: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, Madison, NJ
Speakers: Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State College of Denver, CO
Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY
Kelly Kinney, Binghamton University, State University of New York
T J Geiger II, Syracuse University, NY
Kristi Murray Costello, Binghamton University, State University of New
York
Tricia Serviss, Auburn University, AL
Maya Sanyal, Drew University, Madison, NJ
Sara Biggs Chaney, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Santosh Khadka, Syracuse University, NY
Nicole B. Wallack, Columbia University, New York, NY
Missy Watson, Syracuse University, NY
Kate Navickas, Syracuse University, NY

AW.3 	 Transitioning to Informed Classroom Practices for all
Students: Engaging the Politics and Pedagogy of
Language Varieties in Writing Instruction
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Isabel Baca, University of Texas El Paso
Bonnie Williams, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Rashidah Muhammad, Governors State University, University Park, IL
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 67

67

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Terry Carter, Southern Polytechnic University, Marietta, GA
Qwo-Li Driskill, Texas A&M University, College Station

AW.4 	 Embracing the Richness of Multilingualism through WAC/
WID: Re-envisioning Institutional Leadership,
Advocacy, and Faculty Support
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Co-Chairs: Angela Dadak, American University, Washington, DC
Kathryn Nielsen-Dube, Merrimack College, NH
Gigi Taylor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Jonathan Hall, York College-City University of New York, NY
Michelle Cox, Bridgewater State College, MA
Gigi Taylor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL
Kathryn Nielsen-Dube, Merrimack College, NH
Terry Zawacki, George Mason University, Falls Church, VA
Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID

AW.5 	 Recorded Spoken Feedback: A Compelling Alternative to
Written Response
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: Cary Moskovitz, Duke University, Durham, NC
Speakers: Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Riverton, NJ
Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Brittany Stephenson, Salt Lake Community College, UT
John Drake, Madison Area Technical College, WI
Susan Sipple, University of Cincinnati, OH

AW.6 	 Multimedia Building Blocks: Design Plans and Storyboards
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Speakers: E. Ashley Hall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Jennifer Ware, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Kathie Gossett, Iowa State University, Ames

AW.7 	 Obtaining External Grant Funding for Your Research
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Co-Chairs: Joanna Wolfe, University of Louisville, KY
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Carol Rutz, Carleton College, Northfield, MN
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Paul Anderson, Miami University, Oxford, OH

68

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 68

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.8 	 Effective Practices for Online Writing Instruction: A Workshop in OWI Practice, Instructor Training, Program Evaluation, and Assisting Special Needs Populations
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: Beth Hewett, University of Maryland University College, Adelphi
Speakers: Beth Hewett, University of Maryland University College, Adelphi, “The Phenomenon of OWI”
Christa Ehmann Powers, Smarthinking, Inc., Washington, DC, “Screening
and Training”
Webster Newbold, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, “On-Going Evaluation”
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma, “Planning for Meaningful Choices for All”

AW.9 	 Diversity and Writing Assessment: Gateways to
Assessing and Reporting Student Performance
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Speakers: Asao B. Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Elliot Norbert, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark
Carmen Kynard, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
William Condon, Washington State University, Pullman
Susan Miller-Cochran, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska, Lincoln

AW.10 	Writing Democracy 2012: Envisioning a Federal Writers’
Project for the 21st Century
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chairs: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M-Commerce
Speakers: Jerrold Hirsch, Truman State University, Kirksville, MO, “Historical Context of the Federal Writers’ Project”
Stephen Parks, Syracuse University, NY, “Resisting Democracy: Grassroots Activism Meets University/ Community Partnerships”
Laurie Grobman, Penn State Berks, Reading, “Community-Based Undergraduate Research and the Writing of Local Histories”
Brian Hendrickson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, “As Taproot,
As Heart: Writing Across Communities and the Democratizing Function
of the Community Writing Center”
Catherine Hobbs, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “History in the Red:
Radical History and the FWP”
Respondents: Jeffrey Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 69

69

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.11 	Writing Studies Curriculum: A Gateway to Writing Transfer
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Barb Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN
Speakers: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “History and Philosophy of WAW”
Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas, Permian Basin, Odessa, “Writing
about Writing Online”
Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA, “Increasing Student
Engagement and Agency through Publication”
Marianna Hendricks, University of Texas at El Paso, “Attending to Multilingualism within WAW”
Zach Warzecka, University of Texas at El Paso, Attending to Multilingualism within WAW”
Mackenzie Frazier, University of Texas at El Paso, Attending to Multilingualism within WAW”
Brennon Thomas, Saint Francis University, Loretto, PA, “Problem-Based
Learning Projects for Linked First-Year Composition Courses”
Cornelia Paraskevas, Western Oregon University, Monmouth, “Exploring the Language of College Writing: Multiple Options, Minimal Constraints”
Jennifer Well, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Transfer from a High
School WAW Course to College Writing”
Heather Camp, Minnesota State University-Mankato, “WAW a la Beaufort:
A ‘Writing Expertise’ Curriculum Stretch Course”
M. Elizabeth Sargent, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, “Assessing WAW: Classroom Research and Program Assessment”

AW.12 	Pedagogical Transitions with Latino/a Students in the
Midwest: A Workshop Sponsored by the NCTE/CCCC
Latino/a Caucus
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chairs: Damián Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M Corpus Christi
Speakers: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
Juan Gallegos, University of Arizona, Tucson
Romeo Garcia, Texas A&M University Corpus Christi
Alexandra Hidalgo, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Aja Martinez, University of Arizona, Tucson
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University-San Marcos

70

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 70

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.13 	We Are Not Gatekeepers: Complicating Our Relationships
To Student Texts
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Speakers: Tara Roeder, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Roseanne Gatto, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Thomas Newkirk, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Tom Philipose, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Lizbeth Bryant, Purdue Calumet, Crown Point, IN
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Urbana, OH
Daniel Collins, Manhattan College, Bronx, NY
Adam Koehler, Manhattan College, Bronx, NY
David Seitz, Wright State University, Dayton, OH

AW.14 	Contemplative Teaching and Learning in the Composition
and Communication Classrooms
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Keith Kroll, Kalamazoo Valley Community College, MI
Speakers: Barry Kroll, Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, “Mindful
Movement and Patterns of Argument”
Christy Wenger, Shepherd University, Shepherdstown, WV, “Eastern
Understandings of Embodiment and Mindfulness as Articulated by Iyengar Yoga”
Dan Huston, NHTI, Concord’s Community College, NH, “‘Waking up to
Ourselves’: The Use of Mindfulness Meditation and Emotional Intelligence in the Teaching of Commnications”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 71

71

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 7:30 a.m.–6:30 p.m.

Thursday, March 22
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
EXHIBITS, 10:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
Newcomers’ Coffee Hour, 7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
Renaissance Hotel, Crystal Ballroom, 20th Floor, Grand Tower
Resolutions Committee, 5:30–6:30 p.m. (Open)
6:30–7:30 p.m. (Closed)
Renaissance Hotel, Lafayette Room, Mezzanine Level
Chair: Doug Eyman

72

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 72

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		
		
		
		

Opening General Session
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic
Ballroom, Salon D/E, Second Floor
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Presiding: Chris Anson, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, North Carolina
State University, Raleigh
Greetings: Local Arrangements Chair
Keith Gilyard, NCTE President, Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College, WA

Scholars for the Dream—2012 Recipients
Steven Alvarez, The Graduate Center, City University of New York, NY: N.05
Erica Britt, University of Michigan-Flint: K.02
Karen Ching Carter, Arizona State University, Tempe: H.21
Christina Victoria Cedillo, Northeastern State University-Broken Arrow, OK: L.11
Marino Ivo Lopes Fernandes, University of New Hampshire, Durham: L.24
Juan M. Gallegos, University of Arizona, Tucson: K.15
Eileen Lagman, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign: M.03
Helen Lee, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: D.14
Jimisha I. Relerford, Georgia State University, Atlanta: K.22
LaToya L. Sawyer, Syracuse University, NY: B.11

Previous Scholars for the Dream Award Winners
2011
Sonia C. Arellano, Lamiyah Bahrainwala, Michael Sterling Burns, Lehua Ledbetter,
Kelly McLain, Caroline Prieto, Cheyenne Riggs, Elias Serna, Reva E. Sias

2010
Tamika Barrett, Eileen Ain Shams Eddy,R. Candace Epps-Robertson, Fernando
Febres, Regina L. Golar, ku’ualoha ho’omanawanui, Vivian García López, Brandy
Nalani McDougall, Cruz Medina, Gabriela Raquel Ríos

2009

Maryam Elena Jamali Ashtiani, Lina Buffington, Jason B. Esters, David F. Green,
Jr., Janie Jaramillo-Santoy, Marissa M. Juárez, Wen Ma, Sarah Nieto Olivas, Bettina
Ramón, Michelle Bachelor Robinson

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 73

73

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

2008
Qwo-Li Driskill, Crystal M. Hills, Donna Hunter, Aja Y. Martinez, Natalie A. Martínez, Leslie D. Norris, Kathryn Ortiz, Andrea Osteen, Melissa Berry Pearson, Staci
M. Perryman-Clark

2007
Maria Bibbs, Tamika L. Carey, Korina Jocson, Donna King, Lydia Balderamos Loskot, Barbara Castillo Noyes, Sung Ohm, Ryan Masaaki Omizo, Debbie A. Reese,
Kimberly Thomas
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
scholarsforthedream

Scholars for the Dream Travel Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Eric D. Pritchard, The University of Texas at Austin
Tamika L. Carey, University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Dora Ramírez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID
Cecilia Rodríguez Milanés, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Patricia Trujillo, Northern New Mexico College, Espanola

To increase the participation of traditionally underrepresented groups—African
Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and other Latino
and Latina Americans, and American Indians—CCCC has established the Scholars
for the Dream Travel Awards. The awards celebrate the scholarly contributions of
first-time presenters at CCCC who are members of these groups. By providing some
funding for these scholars to travel to the Conference and to share their work with us,
we hope to make the term “underrepresented” past history.

74

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 74

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship—2012 Recipients
Jessica Barros, St. John’s University, New York, NY
Benjamin Miller, CUNY Graduate Center, New York, NY
Vanessa Rouillon, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Tanita Saenkhum, Arizona State University, Tempe

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Anne Frances Wysocki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Rasha Diab, The University of Texas at Austin
James L. Hill, Albany State University, GA
Shirley Wilson Logan, University of Maryland, College Park
Mike Matthews, Tarrant County College Northwest Campus, Fort Worth, TX

To remember and honor the Chairs of CCCC who have passed away, the CCCC
Executive Committee has created scholarships of $750 each to help cover the costs
of four graduate students who are presenting at the annual conference. Full-time
graduate students whose presentations were selected through the regular peer review
process are eligible for these scholarships.
Previous Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Winners
2011	 Erin R. Anderson, Beth Godbee, Rebecca Lorimer, Ryan Trauman
2010	 Iris Deana Ruiz, Jota Samper, Kyle D. Stedman, Kara Taczak
2009	 Tabetha Adkins, Michael Harker, Susan Meyers, Ehren Pflugfelder
2008	 J. James Bono, Rasha Diab, Hyechong Park, Kate Vieira
2007	 Celeste Del Russo, Spencer Salas, Lee Shenandoah Vasquez, Richard
LeMoine Wright
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
chairsscholarship

Announcement of the 2011-2012 CCCC Research Initiative
Recipients

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 75

75

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Presentation of the Exemplar Award
This award is presented to a person who has served or serves as an exemplar of our
organization, representing the highest ideals of scholarship, teaching, and service to
the entire profession.
Mike Rose, winner of the 2011 CCCC Exemplar Award, will speak.

Mike Rose
Exemplar Award Committee
Chair: 	 Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
		
Adam J. Banks, University of Kentucky, Lexington
		
Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University, San Marcos
		
Rashidah Muhammad, Governors State University, University Park, IL
		
Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI
Previous Award Winners:
2010 	 W. Ross Winterowd
2009 	 Victor Villanueva
2008 	 Patricia Bizzell
2007 	 Peter Elbow
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
exemplar

76

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 76

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		
		

Chair’s Address
Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.
Stories Take Place

Stories take place.
Stories make place.
Stories practice place into space.
Stories produce habitable spaces.
Stories are where we live.
Stories live.
This is a primer for the story I’ll tell.
Malea Powell
We have no being beyond our stories. Our stories explain us, justify us, sustain us, humble us, and forgive
us. And sometimes they injure and destroy us. Make
no mistake, we are at risk in the presence of words. Perhaps the greatest stories
are those which disturb us, which shake us from our complacency, which threaten
our well-being. It is better to enter into the danger of such a story than to keep
safely away in a space where the imagination lies dormant.
—N. Scott Momaday, The Man Made of Words

Michigan State University
East Lansing

If, as Momaday claims, we are the stories we tell, then who are “we” in rhetoric &
composition studies? More specifically, who are “we” at the CCCC? What stories do
we tell of who we are, where we’ve been, where we’re going? How do new members of our discipline become “us” by learning those stories? How are “we” shaped/
changed/made by these new stories? What structures of meaning do our storied practices produce? What stories do those structures refuse to hear? How can we learn to
tell new stories?
How does the practice of our disciplinary stories acknowledge or avoid the places
on which we practice our scholarship and teaching? What settings are in/visible in
these stories? What relationships to place are maintained, subverted, resisted? How
can these relationships be transformed? How can they practice place? How can they
acknowledge and honor the place where our scholarship and teaching happens?

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 77

77

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Among European scholars there is an alienated notion which maintains that theory is separate from story, and thus a different set of words are required to “prove”
an idea than to “show” one. . . . Academicians waste a great deal of effort deleting character, plot, story from theoretical arguments. . . . There is story in every
line of theory. The difference between us and European scholars is that we admit
this and present theory through story. We differ in our presentation of theory, not
in our capacity to theorize. It seems a waste of words to dispassionately delete
character from plot line, tension, and conclusion. It takes a great deal of work to
erase people from theoretical discussions. . . . Theory is useless outside human
application.
­—Lee Maracle, Oratory: Coming to Theory
What are the characters, plots, tensions and conclusions in our discipline? How do
they create theories and structures for knowledge-making? What stories do our arguments tell? What stories do they depend upon, draw from, take for granted?
What characters, plots, tensions and conclusions do our current theories and structures silence, disallow, or ignore? What new stories could we tell if we listened hard
and long to all the human voices in our discipline? What new theories live inside
these stories?
The truth about stories is that that’s all we are. . . . Stories are wondrous things.
And they are dangerous. . . . [O]nce a story is told, it cannot be called back. Once
told, it is loose in the world. So you have to be careful with the stories you tell.
And you have to watch out for the stories you are told. . . . Take [this] story, for
instance. It’s yours. Do with it what you will. Tell it to friends. Turn it into a television movie. Forget about it. But don’t say in the years to come that you would have
lived your life differently if only you had heard this story. You’ve heard it now.
—Thomas King, The Truth About Stories
Sometimes people tell me that in order to hear the stories I’m telling, or to believe
them at least, they’d have to discard the stories they already have, the ones that
comfort them. The ones that give meaning to their scholarship and teaching. Usually
they say this after they’ve already decided that their theory-stories are “right” and
mine are “wrong,” or at least after they’ve decided that their stories are theories and
the ones that folks like me are telling are, well, just stories—not theory or methodology or meaning making at all. Just noise. Or entertainment, spice that livens up a
sometimes dull dish. I guess we’re supposed to be discouraged, keep quiet, stay in
our place. But we just keep keep telling and theorizing and teaching and making. Because we already are in our place, here, on this continent where our discipline lives,
where we all live. You’ve probably heard one of us talk about this place as central to
all of our knowledge-making. And now, you’ll hear me tell that story again. Because
stories take place.
Telling stories is one of the ways that we can begin the process of building community, whether inside or outside the classroom. . . . For years, I was hesitant to
tell personal stories. I had been trained to believe that anyone who relied on a

78

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 78

2/1/12 12:22 PM

personal story as evidence upholding or affirming an idea could never really be
a scholar and/or an intellectual, according to dominator thinking via schools of
higher learning. . . . I am grateful to have lived long enough to learn how much
information we have been given and told was hard science or data was really a
story, . . . Stories help us connect to a world beyond the self. In telling our stories
we make connections with other stories. . . . A powerful way we connect with a
diverse world is by listening to the different stories we are told. These stories are
a way of knowing. Therefore, they contain both power and the art of possibility.
We need more stories.
—bell hooks, Teaching Critical Thinking
Maybe all this talk of “story” feels too touchy-feely to you, yes? Maybe too uncritical, untheoretical. Too idealistic. Too indigenous. Too easy. Maybe that’s why those
of us who admit to storied theorizing, who claim “story” as not just a central methodological tool but who would point to the way that all knowledge is organized and
distributed, produced through story often feel as if we’ve been pushed to the sidelines of the discipline. Maybe not. But there sure are a lot of stories about all of us
and all the teaching we do and all the students we work with and all the research we
do and how hard we all worked to make a discipline and how some people do/don’t
respect that, eh? A lot of stories. Maybe we should learn to listen to them critically,
like we ask our students to do. Maybe we should learn to listen to ourselves with the
same critical care.
I will tell you something about stories,
[he said]
They aren’t just entertainment.
Don’t be fooled.
They are all we have, you see,
all we have to fight off
illness and death.
You don’t have anything
if you don’t have the stories.
Their evil is mighty
but it can’t stand up to our stories.
So they try to destroy the stories
let the stories be confused or forgotten.
They would like that
They would be happy
Because we would be defenseless then.
He rubbed his belly.
I keep them here
[he said]
...

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 79

79

2/1/12 12:22 PM

And in the belly of this story
the rituals and the ceremony
are still growing.
				
—Leslie Marmon Silko, Ceremony
And the place where our collective, contradictory, confounding accumulation of stories lives, is waiting for us to practice our disciplinary future into a different kind of
space.
Stories take place.
This is a story.

80

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 80

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

A Sessions: 10:30–11:45 a.m.
Featured Session

Being Both Personal and Academic:
The Lessons of Objects
Renaissance, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
Objects are rich sources of inquiry; they invite us to
observe closely, pose questions, and anchor ideas in
the concrete. They capture moments in cultural and
personal history and contain complex narratives that
bridge the public with the private. To explore the
world of objects, Doug Hesse, Nancy Sommers, and
Kathleen Blake Yancey designed a project called
Object Lessons, in which they devoted thirty days
to writing about a different object each day. The
objects under investigation reflect the ideals of the
culture that created them and raise abundant questions about the processes by which private objects
become public artifacts. Among the many questions
asked are: What may be learned about the evocative
power of objects from a sustained attention to them?
How do objects reveal or conceal their origins? And
what may we learn about the acts of composing from
a sustained project over thirty days? In this multimedia presentation, the speakers will explore the lessons of objects, moving outward to interdisciplinary
inquires, and questioning traditional boundaries between personal and academic writing.

Douglas Hesse

Nancy Sommers

Chair: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers:
Douglas Hesse
University of Denver, “A Folder, a Trombone, and a
License to Ditch Rhetoric”
Nancy Sommers
Kathleen Blake
Harvard University, Cambridge, “The Call of ObYancey
jects”
Kathleen Blake Yancey
Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Objects, the Vernacular, and Composing’s Invention”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 81

81

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Featured Session

Composing Genealogies:
A Family Tree of Composition/Rhetoric
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
Linguistic turn, social turn, ethical turn, meta-disciplinary turn: since the start of CCCC, the field has
seen new agendas sweep in with each new generation
of scholars. Which begs the question: What are the
lines of descent or inheritance in this scholarly family?
What intellectual elders have influenced the questions
we ask and the projects we undertake, and how might
we trace those lines of influence? What new patterns
emerge as strands branch out and reconnect? In short,
Sondra Perl
what is the genealogy of writing studies?
	 At this session, we will introduce an interactive,
open-access platform that enables us to visualize the
mentor-student relationships which helped shape our
origins and which continue to shape our development.
Created by students and faculty at the CUNY Graduate Center, the Writing Studies Tree displays academic
“ancestors,” “descendants,” and “siblings.” For example, the tree can trace connections between PhD students and dissertation chairs or committees; between
Benjamin Miller
coauthors and research collaborators; even between
instructors and writing program administrators, whose
pedagogical influence can often be formative. Designed for growth, the tree
allows for multiple “parents” and browser-based editing, so that it will become
an even more valuable resource the more it is used. In addition to demonstrating the platform’s user interface, we will trace the branches and roots of several
scholars in the field, and ask participants to begin mapping their own. After the

Erica Kaufman

Dominique Zino

Jill Belli

82

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 82

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Amanda

Licastro

Lisa Vaia

Diana Epelbaum

Chris Leary

Andrew Statum

session and throughout the conference, we will be available at a workstation to
help CCCC members add their genealogies to the tree.
	 Ultimately, the Writing Studies Tree is a shared endeavor. Making its gateway appearance at the Cs, it will open the door to a truly collaborative way of
documenting and preserving our history. We invite you to join us.
Co-chairs: Sondra Perl, CUNY Graduate Center/Lehman College, Bronx, NY
Benjamin Miller, CUNY Graduate Center/Lehman College, Bronx, NY
Speakers:
Sondra Perl
CUNY Graduate Center/Lehman College, Bronx, NY, “Creating the Writing
Studies Tree: History and Background”
Benjamin Miller
CUNY Graduate Center/Lehman College, Bronx, NY, “Creating the Writing
Studies Tree: History and Background” 
Erica Kaufman
CUNY Graduate Center/Baruch College, NY, “Discovering Genealogies of
Scholars in the Field”
Dominique Zino
CUNY Graduate Center, Queens College, Flushing, NY, “Discovering Genealogies of Scholars in the Field”
Jill Belli
CUNY Graduate Center/Baruch College, NY, “Tracing the New Media Strand”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 83

83

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Amanda Licastro
CUNY Graduate Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, NY, “Tracing the New Media Strand”
Diana Epelbaum
CUNY Graduate Center, NY, “Tending to the Roots of Compositionists in the
Room”
Chris Leary
CUNY Graduate Center/St. John’s University, Staten Island, NY, “Tending to the
Roots of Compositionists in the Room”
Lisa Vaia
CUNY Graduate Center/Queens College, Flushing, NY, “Creating and Curating:
Next Steps”
Andrew Statum
CUNY Graduate Center/Queens College, Flushing, NY, “Creating and Curating:
Next Steps”

84

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 84

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.01 	 Performing the Archive: Practice, Stories, and Materiality
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Madhu Narayan, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Storying the Archive: Narrative, History, and Identity”
Donnie Johnson Sackey, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Carp
Stories: Swimming through an Archive of Invasion”
Casie Cobos, Texas A&M University, College Station, “Into the Archival
Nothings: (Re)Writing Chican@ Stories from Scratch”
Respondent: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Academic Writing

A.02 	 Constructing Student Identity: Honor Placement, Peer
Review, and Student Affairs Practices
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: Carol Bollin, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Speakers: CB Mckenzie, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York,
NY, “First-Year Honors Composition: Data from the Other Margin of
College First-Year Composition”
Martha Webber, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Inventing
the University Student: Bridging First-Year Composition and Student
Affairs Practice”
Sonja Launspach, Idaho State University, Pocatello, “Socially Situated
Meaning: Talk, Literacies, and the Acquisition of Academic Discourse”
Community, Civic and Public

A.03 	 The Public Work of Rhetoric: University-Community
Collaborations as Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Chair: Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: David Coogan, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond,
“How to Make a Middle Space”
Lorelei Blackburn, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “The Affordances of Organic Relationship-building in Civic Engagement Projects”
Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Writing (with) the
Cherokee Nation: The Transformative Power of Sequoyan”
Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY, “Transitioning to Actual Struggle: Beyond Rhetorical Agency”
Ben Kuebrich, Syracuse University, NY, “Police Cameras on Every Corner
and Pencil-Whipped Residents Who Write Back”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 85

85

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.04 	 Video Projects in First-Year Writing: Three Gateway Pedagogies
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chair: Timothy Briggs, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Timothy Briggs, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Remediating Processes, Remediating Products: Toward a Pedagogy of Video
Composing”
Shaun Moore, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Recreating Collaboration: Video Composing in an Online Environment”
Christina Hall, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Proposals, Commercials, and Press Releases: Video Composing as a Gateway to Modes of
Communication”
Language

A.05 	 Gateways for Monolinguistic Instructors: Tailored
Instruction for Bilingual Spanish-English Speakers in
First-Year Writing Courses and Writing Centers
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Katherine Schmidt, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Speakers: Katherine Schmidt, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Heidi Coley, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Dennis Butler, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Maria Peralta Cortez, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Institutional and Professional

A.06 	 Opening the Gates between Writing Program
Administration and Faculty Development
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chair: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Gerald Nelms, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “How What
We Know about Learning Could Change How We Teach Composition”
Claire Lamonica, Illinois State University, Normal, “Everything I Ever
Needed to Know about Faculty Development, I Learned as a WPA”
Susan Hess, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva, NY, “As Close as
You Can Get: Combining Support for Learning, Teaching, and Writing
in one Center”
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “The Friday Morning Faculty Writing Club: Promoting WAC through Faculty Research
and Writing”

86

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 86

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Kimberly Emmons, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, “By
Another Name: Possibilities for ‘Covert’ Faculty Development in a Distributed Writing Program”
Isis Artze-Vega, Florida International University, Miami, “At the Crossroads
of Writing Instruction and Teaching Assistant Development”
Research

A.07 	 Transnational Writing Research: Traveling Methodologies
in an Age of Globalization
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Kate Vieira, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound, Tacoma, WA,
“When High-Speed Meets Dial-Up: Material Conditions and Literacy
Research Methods”
Rebecca Lorimer, University of Wisconsin, Madison, “Researching Writing
across Cultural Communities”
Kate Vieira, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Tracing the Traveling Text”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.08	 Undergraduate Research as Teaching for Social Justice
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Chair: Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, MA, “Undergraduate
Research as Access”
Joleen Hanson, University of Wisconsin-Stout, Menomonie, “Undergraduate Research in a Multilingual Writing Course”
Michelle Cox, Bridgewater State University, MA, “Raising Awareness
about Second Language Writers through Undergraduate Research and
Service-Learning”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.09 	 Frontiers for Reading Pedagogy: First-Year Composition,
Research Writing Courses, and Writing in the Disciplines
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Alice Horning, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, “Teaching Reading in the Introductory Composition Classroom”
Cynthia Haller, York College, City University of New York, NY, “Teaching
Reading in the Research Writing Classroom”
Alice Horning, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “A Good Kind of CRAC:
Critical Reading across the Curriculum”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 87

87

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Community, Civic and Public

A.10 	 Rhetoric, Violence and Hope: The Exploration of
Literacies on the Borderlands
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Chair: Lauren Connolly, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Lauren Connolly, University of Texas at El Paso, “Writing on the
Borderlands: What Does It Mean to Be Literate along The U.S.-Mexico
Border?”
Minal Singh, University of Texas at El Paso, “A Rhetoric of Violent Passages:
Construction of the Literate Subaltern”
Willivaldo Delgadillo, University of Texas at El Paso, “Daring to Tell Their
Story: Women and Writing in Juárez”
Information Technologies

A.11 	 The Digital Mandate: Exploring the Frontier of Code
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Trisha Red Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Jamie Skye Bianco, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Composing,
Coding, Collaborating”
Trisha Red Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Code as Poetry; Code
as Rhetoric?”
Steve Klabnik, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Composition becomes Digital”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.12 	 Currents of Traditionalism
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2
Chair: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Speakers: Kyle Harley, The University of Akron, OH, “Historical Traditions:
The Dominating Ideology of Current Traditionalism in the Classroom”
Sharon Henry, Clemson University, SC, “Objective Objections: Theoretical
Tensions with Current Traditionalism”
Wayne McDonald, The University of Akron, OH, “Pedagogical Simplicity:
The Relationship between Current Traditionalism and Adjunct Exploitation”
Respondent: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.13 	 Continual Gateways: Undergraduate Research as
Category Mixing
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Chair: Dan Anderson, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

88

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 88

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Speakers: Dan Anderson, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Ashley Hall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Sydney Stegall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Joe Albernaz, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Scott Lloyd DeWitt, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Ben Whitley, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Jill Dwiggins, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Jason Loan, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Academic Writing

A.14 	 Communicating in Digital Environments: Implications of
the WPA Outcomes Statement
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Speakers: Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Mesa, “The WPA Outcomes
Statement, Composition, and Technical Communication: Writing for
Life”
Barbara D’Angelo, Arizona State University, Mesa, “The WPA Outcomes
Statement, Information Literacy: Mediating Information”
Norbert Elliot, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, “The WPA Outcomes Statement, Assessment, and Construct Validity: Evaluating Performance”
Andrew Klobucar, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark, “The WPA
Outcomes Statement and the Student Writer: A Matrix of Digital Communication Technologies”
Respondent: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.15 	 Composing Cultures and Copyright
Renaissance Hotel, Hawthorne Room, 21st Floor
Chair: Martine Courant Rife, Lansing Community College, MI
Speakers: Dànielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
“Copyright: Why Culture Matters”
Kim Gainer, Radford University, VA, “Best (Copyright) Practices in the Classroom: Guidelines for Educational Use of Media”
Jeff Galin, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, “Fair Use or Fared Use:
The Culture of Interlibrary Loan Hangs in the Balance”
Martine Courant Rife, Lansing Community College, MI, “Taking Your Research Live: The DMCA Exemptions for Writing Teachers”
Traci Zimmerman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, “(Re)Creating the Commons: The Gateway to an Information Ecology”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 89

89

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

History

A.16 	 The Use of Archival Research
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Lisa Tucker, Raritan Valley Community College, Branchburg, NJ
Speakers: Elizabeth Powers, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Early
20th Century Postcards of U.S. National Parks: Commercial and Vernacular Gateways to a Changed Environmental Imagination”
James Knippling, University of Cincinnati, OH, “The National Park Service
and the Rhetoric of Aesthetic Heritage”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.17 	 Jewish Rhetoric and Jewish Teaching
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Joy Arbor, Kettering University, Flint, MI “‘O Israel’: Listening in
Judaism and What It Has to Teach Us”
Rachel Carrales, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Jewish Memory and/as
Rhetorical Memory”
Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Teaching and
the Sacred”
Theory

A.18 	 Composition as Ethical Negotiation of Constraints
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2
Chair: Dana Anderson, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Ira Allen, Indiana University, Bloomington, “The Negotiation of
Fantastical Selves”
Corey Sparks, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Composition, Chaucer,
and the Medieval Prison”
Lydia Wilkes, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Negotiating Ethical Constraints: Iraq War Memoir and Veterans in the Classroom”
Diane Davis, University of Texas, Austin, “The Future of Composition”
Information Technologies

A.19 	 Teaching Unplugged
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2
Chair: Chad Engbers, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI
Speakers: Chad Engbers, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI, “Audience
Enough: How Technology Affect Writers’ Sense of Readers”
Greg Graham, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “A Pedagogy of Fluency
in a Densely Woven World”
Rebecca Gerdes, Indiana University, South Bend, “In Defense of Paper: Commenting on Student Papers Sans Technology”

90

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 90

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

A.20 	 Finding Productive Writing Pedagogies in WAC and
Writing Programs
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Allison Kellar Lenhardt, Georgia University, Atlanta
Speakers: Dirk Remley, Kent State University, OH, “Surveying the Disciplines as Gateway to Writing Program Assessment: Results from One
Program’s Survey”
Mary McMullen-Light, MCC-Longview Community College, Lee’s Summit, MO, “Gateway to WAC Groundswell: Embracing Participatory
Culture”
Irvin Peckham, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, “The Dialectic of Teaching and Testing: Getting Assessment and Pedagogy to Speak
to Each Other”
Professional and Technical Writing

A.21 	 Gateways to Audiences in Evolving/Complex Workplace
Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
Chair: Rachel Spilka, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Rachel Spilka, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Complicating Audience Models”
Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, “Best Practices for
Addressing Digital, Intercultural, and Diverse Audiences”
Tammy Rice-Bailey, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Instructional
Designers Constructing, Interpreting, and Communicating with Remote,
Networked Audiences”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.22 	 Who Needs Rhetoric Anyway?
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair: Keith Walters, Portland State University, OR
Speakers: David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, “Rhetoric in
the Liberal Arts Tradition”
Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA, “Nothing so Practical as a
Good Theory”
Roger Cherry, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, “Rhetoric for
Students and Teachers of Writing”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 91

91

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.23 	 Basic Writers in Transition: A Developmental Process
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Kathy Cassity, Hawaii Pacific University, Honolulu
Speakers: Dawn Finley, University of Missouri–St. Louis, “The Impact of
Text-Based Learning Activities and Process Writing on Student Confidence and Achievement”
Lori Brack, Northwest Missouri State University, Maryville, “We Walk the
Lines: Transitions and Transformations as Basic Writers Enter Freshman
Composition”
Mary Hammerbeck, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA “We
Walk the Lines: Transitions and Transformations as Basic Writers Enter
Freshman Composition”
Community, Civic and Public

A.24 	 Another C: The Complicated Institutionalization of
“Community”
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Stephanie White, University of Wisconsin–Madison
Speakers: Andrea Malouf, Salt Lake City Community College, UT, “Resisting the Commodification of Community: Ethical Approaches to Sustainable Community-Based Writing Partnerships”
Elisabeth Miller, University of Wisconsin–Madison, “Beyond Service:
Making Community Literacy Central in Graduate Education”
Stephanie White, University of Wisconsin–Madison, “Finding Middle
Ground between CV-Building and Altruism in Community Writing”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.25 	 New Possibilities for “Competent Inquiries:” Toward
Cross Contextual Methods for Writing Studies
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: John Oddo, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Christina Haas, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Four
Strategies for the Conduct of Cross-Contextual Research”
Chad Wickman, Auburn University, AL, “Redefining Context for the Study of
Writing in Science”
Christa Teston, University of Idaho, Moscow, “Modeling Disciplined Interdisciplinarity in the Study of Rhetoric and Writing in Medical Innovation”
John Oddo, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, “Rethinking Rhetorical Criticism: Grounded Analysis across Texts and Semiotic Modes”

92

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 92

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

A.26 	 Leaving Print Behind: Three Composition Journals Move
into Digital Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair: Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Diane Kelly-Riley, Washington State University, Pullman “Thinking Outside the Box while Jumping into the Fire: The Role and Opportunities for Online Journals in an Era of Accountability and Assessment”
Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “So What
‘Big Names’ Have You Published?: Establishing Scholarly Credibility
for an Online Journal”
Cheryl Ball, Illinois State University, Bloomington, “The Mid-Life (Crisis?)
of Kairos: Caring for the Health and Welfare of Open-Access Digital
Media Publishing”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.27 	 Multimodal Gateways: An Invitation for Reimagining
Student Roles in the Composition Classroom and Beyond
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Ronald Clark Brooks, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater
Speakers: Shannon Madden, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Gateways
for Critical Pedagogy: A Disability Studies Perspective on the Student-Centered Multimodal Classroom”
Jerry Stinnett, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Building New Gateways
to Public Discourse Multimodal Composition, Counterpublics, and Defending the Diversity of Student Language”
Elkie Burnside, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, “The Stargate of
Composition Classrooms: The Power of Multimodal Author/Creators to
Transect the Academic Universe and Its Boundaries”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.28 	 Strategies for Supporting Basic Writers: Gateways to
Academic and Professional Discourse
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Tim Taylor, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston
Speakers: Linda Copeland, St. Louis Community College at Meramec, MO,
“Setting the Right Stage: Classroom Activities That Introduce Students
to College Expectations”
Tim Taylor, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, “Analyzing and Using the
Codes: Classroom Activities That Introduce Students to Writing for College and Beyond”
Fern Kory, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, “De-Naturalizing the
Codes: Training Tutors to Support Student Writers in Transition”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 93

93

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.29 	 Fun and Games in Rhetoric and Composition Teaching
and Scholarship
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: John Stovall, Norridge, IL
Speakers: Monica Robinson, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI,
“Advance One Space: Instructional Game Design as the Next Move for
Composition and Game Studies”
Oriana Gatta, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Visualizing Critical Pedagogy: Comic Convergence in the Composition Classroom”
Robert Gilmor, University of Denver, CO, “Game, Play, Write: The Writing Class and the Intertextual Composing Processes of Student/GamerAuthored Video Game Walkthroughs”
History

A.30 	 Literacy Instruction from World War II to the Cold War:
Boundaries, Gateways, and Legacies
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina-Greensboro
Speakers: Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina-Greensboro, “English
Journal in Wartime: Literary Humanism versus Civic Engagement in
Secondary School Pedagogies”
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M Commerce, “Un/American ‘Standards’ at ‘The
South’s Most Democratic College’”
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado, Boulder, “The D.A. in English: College Teaching, Faculty Standards, and Emotional Labor”
Anne Bello, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, “A War Made for English
Teachers: Composition, Linguistics, and Webster’s Third New International
Dictionary”
Theory

A.31 	 New Presences of the “Words”: Re-Examining Walter
Ong’s Work as a Disciplinary/Interdisciplinary Gateway
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Vincent Casaregola, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Vincent Casaregola, St. Louis University, MO, “‘Orality,’ Literally: Re-Embodying the Voice as Oral Performance in the Writing Classroom”
Sarah Fielding, St. Louis University, MO, “Sounding the Depths of Voice:
Orality ‘Evoked’ in Writing—the Echo of Personality”
Jennifer Dorsey, St. Louis University, MO, “The Secondary Orality Solution: Ong, Open Access, and the Future of Academic Publishing”

94

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 94

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.32 	 Seeing the Unseen: Emotions and Student Writing
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Nicole Caswell, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Nicole Caswell, Kent State University, OH, “Riding the Response
Emotional Rollercoaster: Teachers’ Emotions when Reading Student
Writing”
Allison Gross, University of Washington-Seattle, “‘I am just pretty happy at
first that my message has at least gotten to other side. . . .’: Constructing
Emotions, Effective Teaching, and Student Learning”
Gina DeNardi, Kent State University, OH, “Undergraduate Tutor/Graduate
Client Emotions: A Look at the Role of Emotion in Tutorial Engagement”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

A.33 	 From Intuition to Information: How Explicit Grammatical
Knowledge Makes Better Writers and Better Writing
Teachers
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Gigi Taylor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Linda Bergmann, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “The
Place of Language in Composition Studies”
Amy Ferdinandt Stolley, Saint Xavier University, Chicago, IL, “What We
Talk About When We Talk About Grammar: Student Perceptions of Language Instruction in the Composition Classroom”
Gigi Taylor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Language as a
Higher Order Concern in the Writing Center”
Writing Programs

A.34 	 The Next Step: Outcomes for Majors in Writing and
Rhetoric. A Roundtable Discussion
America’a Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, Madison, NJ
Speakers: Keith D. Miller, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Moving beyond the WPA Outcomes Statement to Outcomes for Writing Majors”
Deborah Balzhiser, Texas State University, San Marcos, “Patterns and Outcomes Revealed by the CCCC Database of Writing Majors”
Tom Moriarty, Salisbury University, MD, “Recovering Rhetoric and Finding a Focus”
Tim Peeples, Elon University, NC, “Balancing Professional Writing Outcomes with Rhetorical Training”
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 95

95

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Sanford Tweedie, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, “Locally Developed
Outcomes for a Major that Includes Creative Writing”
Helen Foster, University of Texas, El Paso, “The Possibility for Compromise: Balancing Local Contingencies with National Identity”
Research

A.35 	 Opening Gateways across the Curriculum: Writing about
Writing and Transfer in High School and College Courses
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Jennifer Wells, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Jennifer Wells, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Formula
to Function: WAW and Knowledge Transfer from High School to College”
Ed Jones, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ, “Motivating WAWBased FYC through Disciplinary Linkage”
Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Teaching for Transfer:
Writing and Forward-Reaching Knowledge in a Peer Tutoring Course”

A.37 	 Open Working Meeting of the Special Interest Group on
Rhetoric and Christian Tradition
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

96

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 96

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B Sessions: 12:15–1:30 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Susan D. Blum
Whose Words Are These? Who Cares? Views of
College Plagiarism, Authorship, and Learning from
Inside and Outside School Gates
Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
Chair: Bonnie Sunstein, University of Iowa, Iowa City
To my surprise, I have come to see plagiarism and
cheating as rational strategies for students whose goals
lie in efficiency and achievement. When we regard
education as a commodity and the goal as a credential,
any method possible to reach that goal seems reasonable or even laudable. In this talk I will discuss the
types of goals that students, faculty, and the public
seem to hold of our common enterprise, showing that
Susan D. Blum
the lack of agreement about our very purpose may lead
to the results we deplore. I will also describe a few of
my own experiments with creating more meaningful assignments.
Susan D. Blum is Professor and Chair of Anthropology at the University of
Notre Dame. After writing about timid anthropological topics like ethnicity and
nationalism in China, or truth and deception in China and elsewhere, she plunged
into the lively universe of plagiarism studies in her book My Word! Plagiarism
and College Culture (2009). She is currently working on two projects: Learning
Versus Schooling: A Professor’s Reeducation, and Six Educational Cultures: A
Critical Ethnography and Analysis. Her classes have become a laboratory for
experimenting with new ways to learn and teach.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 97

97

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Featured Session

Legacies, Gateways, and the Future of Literacy Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Second Level

Harvey J. Graff

Morris Young

Debra Brandt

The study of literacy over the last 40 years has undergone incredible transformation, moving from viewing
literacy as a great cognitive leap in human development
to situating literacy in specific social and cultural contexts to examining how the advent of new digital composing technologies may transform literacy practices.
In Composition and Rhetoric, the study of literacy has
been shaped by scholars such as Anne Ruggles Gere,
Brian Street, Jacqueline Jones Royster, and Cynthia
Selfe, who have helped to broaden our understandings
about how literacy is practiced, where it takes place,
and for what purposes. Perhaps more than anyone else,
Deborah Brandt has shaped the terms of contemporary
literacy studies—“involvement,” “accumulation,” and
“sponsorship”—that describe the complexity of literacy
in multiple dimensions (e.g., the economic, the political, the social, the transnational) and provide a framework for studying the literacy practices of individuals
and communities that have been underexamined and
undertheorized. In this session, the presenters will chart
the rise and direction of literacy studies with special
attention to the conceptual contributions of Deborah
Brandt. Harvey J. Graff will situate and reflect upon
the emergence and sustainability of literacy as an area
study. Morris Young will consider the sponsors of literacy studies, charting the influence of contemporary
scholars of literacy. Deborah Brandt will look toward
the rise of writing as the new mass literacy and how this
may shape the future of literacy studies. Finally, John
Duffy, Rhea Estelle Lathan, and Kate Vieira will reflect
on the development of literacy studies and consider new
directions of research.

Chair:
Morris Young
University of Wisconsin, Madison

98

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 98

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Speakers:
Harvey J. Graff
Ohio State University, Columbus, “The Legacies of Literacy Studies”
Morris Young
University of Wisconsin, Madison, “Sponsoring Literacy Studies”
Deborah Brandt
University of Wisconsin, Madison, “At the Dawn of (Mass)Writing”
Respondents:
John Duffy
University of Notre Dame
Rhea Estelle
Lathan, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Kate Vieira
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

John Duffy

Rhea Estelle

Kate Vieira

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 99

99

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B.01 	 Multimodality, Multiliteracy, and Virtual Worlds:
Remediating Our Practices
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2
Chair: Mary Wyeth, Adelphi University, Garden City, NY
Speakers: Benjamin Goodwin, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
“Capturing the Conversation: Lessons Learned in Moving an Interactive
PhD Workshop Online”
Alexandria Peary, Salem State University, MA, “Helping Faculty Overcome the Digital Divide through Composition Pedagogies”
David Sheridan, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Gateways to
Multimodal Rhetoric: Developing Technology-Rich, Student-Centered
Spaces for Composing New Media”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.02 	 Enlisting the Spoken Voice in Teaching Composition and
Teaching Literature
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
Chair: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, “Enlisting
the Spoken Voice in Teaching Composition”
Erika Scheurer, University of Saint Thomas, Saint Paul, MN, “Enlisting the
Spoken Voice in Teaching Literature”
Research

B.03 	 Revisualizing Composition One SMS at a Time:
Technology, Value, and Purpose
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, Okemos
Speakers: Stacey Pigg, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Writing as
a Way of Being: Visualizing a Day in the Life of a College Writer”
Paula Rosinski, Elon University, NC, “Mobile Writing Platforms and Multiple Genres: The Transfer of Writing Strategies from Informal-to-Formal
Contexts”
Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC, “Mobile Writing Platforms and Multiple Genres: The Transfer of Writing Strategies from Informal-to-Formal
Contexts”
Beth Brunk-Chavez, University of Texas at El Paso, “Using Revisualizing
Composition to Influence Program Direction and Inform Policy”

100

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 100

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

B.04 	 Medical Gateways: Ethnographic Studies of
Communication Practices in Emerging Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2
Chair: Elizabeth L. Angeli, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Elizabeth L. Angeli, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Assembling Communication in Emergency Medical Services”
Michael J. Klein, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, “From
Writing Workshop to Workplace Writing: Socialization in the Medical
Communication Internship”
Debra D. Burleson, Baylor University, Waco, TX, “How Hospitalists’ Perceptions Influence Medical Communication”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.05 	 Writing in Place: The Importance of the Local
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Nicole Hancock, Southwestern Illinois College, Velleville
Speakers: Jessica Barnes-Pietruszynski, West Virginia State University,
Institute, “Teaching in the Mountains: The Writing Classroom and the
Appalachian Identity”
Jeffrey Pietruszynski, West Virginia State University, Institute, “Teaching
in the Mountains: The Writing Classroom and the Appalachian Identity”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.06 	 Complicating “Transfer”: Articulating Thresholds for
Writing and Learning across Disciplines
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara,
“Concurrent Contexts: Students, Their Instructors, and Threshold
Concepts”
John Majewski, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Concurrent
Contexts Students, Their Instructors, and Threshold Concepts”
Damian Koshnick, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Threshold
Concepts in Interdisciplinary Research”
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID, “Teaching and Learning across
Contexts: Disciplinarity, Writing, and Troublesome Knowledge”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 101

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 101

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.07 	 Regarding Religion in the Composition Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
Chair: Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Speakers: Todd Battistelli, University of Texas at Austin, “Uneasy Transitions between Sacred and Secular: Investigating the Unacknowledged
Operation of Religious Privilege in Writing Studies”
Emily Cope, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, “Faithful Texts: The Academic Writing of Self-Identified Evangelical Undergraduates”
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, MI, “Practicing the
Community of Truth: Guiding the Spirit Dimension of Composition Instruction”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.08 	 Ong at 100: New Gateways in the Scholarship of Walter J.
Ong
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Chair: Paul Lynch, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Paul Lynch, St. Louis University, MO, “Ong at 100: New Gateways in the Scholarship of Walter J. Ong”
Nathaniel Rivers, St. Louis University, MO, “Restructuring Thought: Leveraging Ong for an Interdisciplinary Cognitive Science”
Patricia Sullivan, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Ong at 100: New
Gateways in the Scholarship of Walter J. Ong”
Abigail Lambke, St. Louis University, MO, “Ong at 100: New Gateways in
the Scholarship of Walter J. Ong”
History

B.09 	 Imagined Geographies: Basic Writing, Basic Training, and
the Voices of Captain Cook
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair: Yao Tong, University of California, San Bernardino
Speakers: Leonard Grant, Montclair State University, Montclair, NJ,
“Space, Cognition, and Contexts of Power Aboard the HMS Endeavor”
Katherine Bridgman, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Passing
Through the Textual Gateways of an Imagined Geography: Basic Writing”
Brian Gogan, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, “From Civilian to
Soldier: The Historical Function of Writing during Military Transition”

102

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 102

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.10 	 The Art of Affiliative (Dis)position: Pursuing a Joyful
Commitment to Social Justice
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: Harry Denny, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Speakers: Rasha Diab, University of Texas at Austin, “Working Radical
Presence and Interactional Reflexivity”
Sundy Watanabe, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “‘Socio-Acupuncture’
Stories: Needled, Stung, Pricked, and . . . Healed?”
Beth Godbee, Marquette University, Madison, WI, “The Pursuit of Affiliation in Cross-Racial Collaborative Writing Talk”
Thomas Ferrel, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Nancy Grimm, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “Resisting
Affiliative Connection: The Push of Tacit Values and Expectations”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.11 	 Black and Brown Literacies: Gateways to Transformative
Theories, Practices, and Meaningful Engagement(s)
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Chair: Marcelle Haddix, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: LaToya Sawyer, Syracuse University, NY, “‘Where Them Girls
At?’: Exploring Online Hip-hop Female Literacies and Discourse Practices”
Denise Valdes, Syracuse University, NY, “Leaving the Gate Ajar: Latina
Discourse, Identity, and the Composition Classroom”
Candace Epps-Robertson, Syracuse University, NY, “When Will They Take
This School Down Too?: Teaching Literacy for Liberation in the Prince
Edward County Free School, 1963–1964”
Respondent: Valerie Kinloch, The Ohio State University, Columbus

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 103

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 103

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Academic Writing

B.12 	 The Development of Writing Instruction in Israeli Higher
Education: Issues and Ambitions
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Harvey Kail, University of Main, Orono
Speakers: Trudy Zuckermann, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, “The
History of Academic Writing in Israel”
Bella Rubin, Tel Aviv University, Israel, “Writing Instruction in Graduate Programs in the Sciences, Engineering, Business Administration, and the
Humanities”
Shimona Kushner, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, “Writing
Instruction at the Israel Institute of Technology”
Ruwaida Abu-Rass, Beit Berl Academic College, Israel, “Developing a
Course of Writing Instruction to Meet the Needs of Arab College Students in Israel”
Yochie Wolffensberger, Seminar Hakibuzim College of Education, Tel-Aviv,
Israel, “Mentoring Writing in Hebrew at an Israeli College”
Michael Dickel, Ohalo College in Katzrin, Israel, “Plagiarism and Resistance in Israel”
Community, Civic and Public

B.13 	 Improving Service Learning in Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: James Zimmerman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
Speakers: Kimberly Pierce, Boise State University, ID, “The Effects of
Service-Learning on Student Writing and Research: A Case Study”
Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Reflective ServiceLearning Courses: Gateways to Critical Thinking”
Jayne Moneysmith, Kent State University at Stark, North Canton, OH,
“Transitioning from Classroom to Workplace: Using Student Project
Managers to Help Students Negotiate Service-Learning Projects”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.14 	 The Architecture of Image: Building Stronger Identities
and PR for Professors and WPAs
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Elizabeth Burmester, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Elizabeth Burmester, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “What
Lawyers Might Teach English Faculty about the Persuasion of Ethos:
How We Look to Outsiders, and What We Need for Constructing Persuasive Identities for Multiple Publics”

104

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 104

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Jennifer Forsthoefel, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “It’s Not Just Service: Advancing the Writing Center Director as Scholar and Researcher
through Critical Engagement with Theory and Method”
Andrew Davis, University of Mississippi, Oxford, “Graduate Student Administrators and Community Partnerships: Back-Office Experience in
Business and Technology Creates Institutional Identity and Off-Campus
Opportunity”
Information Technologies

B.15 	 Content Management: New Gateways and Challenges of
Technology in Transition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Rebekka Andersen, University of California-Davis
Speakers: Tatiana Batova, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stewart Whittemore, Auburn University, AL
Dave Clark, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.16 	 The Liminality of Listening and Epistemologies of Sound
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Jenny Edbauer Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Steph Ceraso, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Listening Bodies:
Deaf Musicians and Multimodal Composing Practices”
Kati Fargo Ahern, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Attending to
Sound: How Do We Listen for Auditory Rhetoric in Composition?”
Kyle D. Stedman, University of South Florida, Orlando, “Musical Rhetoric
in the Delivery of the Digital and the Dance”
Community, Civic and Public

B.17 	 Genres as Gateways to Rhetorical Action
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair:
Speakers: Suzanne Spring, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY, “‘I have my
part therein’: Mapping Women’s Reform Letters in National and Transnational Contexts”
Rona Kaufman, Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, WA, “Laying the
Matter on the Table: Composing Kitchen Judaism in Turn-of-the-Century Seattle”
Lindsay Ellis, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, “Women’s
Work for Peace and Patriotism in WWI-Era Textbooks”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 105

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 105

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Creative Writing

B.18 	 Explorations in Creative Writing Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Julie Platt, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Gary Hawkins, Warren Wilson College, Asheville, NC, “Getting
Real in the Creative Writing Workshop: Re-opening the Pedagogy of
Peer Review with Reality TV”
Kasey Perkins, Truman State University, Kirksville, MO, “Expertise as the
New Talent in Creative Writing Pedagogy”
Ronda Dively, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, “Gateway to Creative Insight: A Discourse Analysis of Incubation as Represented in ‘The
Paris Review Interviews’”
History

B.19 	 With the Spirit of James A. Berlin: A Conversation on
Historiographies
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chair: Victor J. Vitanza, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Michelle Ballif, University of Georgia, Athens
Byron Hawk, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Susan C. Jarratt, University of California, Irvine
John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington
Victor J. Vitanza, Clemson University, SC
Information Technologies

B.20 	 Technology and Histories of Composition Studies
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair: Liz Tinelli
Speakers: Vincent Robles, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Computers
and Composition as Narration: A Logic of Good Reasons for Technology
in the Composition Classroom”
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, “Sifting for Worm
Turns: Thirty Keywords over Two Decades in College Composition and
Communication”
Joe Erickson, Angelo State University, San Angelo, TX, “Positioning Rhetoric and Composition Program Websites as Digital Gateways: The ‘Inwardly and Publicly Transformative’ Performances of Our Disciplinary
Expertise”

106

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 106

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B.21 	 Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Publishing
but Were Afraid to Ask: A Roundtable with NCTE Journal
Editors
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Second Floor
Chair: Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee,
Editor, College Composition and Communication
Jeffrey Somers, West Chester University, PA, Editor, Teaching English in
the Two-Year College
Paul Prior, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Editor, Research in
the Teaching of English
Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, Editor, College
English
Institutional and Professional

B.22 	 Can Good Composition Teaching Be Done under Present
Conditions?
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Second Floor
Chair: Ralph Cintron, University of Illinois, Chicago
Speakers: Jeanne Gunner, Chapman University, Anaheim, CA, “Ethos Is
Not Agency”
Ralph Cintron, University of Illinois, Chicago, “Money, Labor, and the Public University”
Kevin Christopher Carey, University of Illinois, Chicago, “Is Pedagogy Possible under Present Conditions?”
Thomas Miller, University of Arizona, Tucson, “The Political Economy of
Literacy, Literacy Studies, and the Literate”
Language

B.23 	 Of Gatekeepers and Keymasters: Designing Programs
and Pedagogy for Multilingual Writers
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA,
“Transforming the Argument about Multilingual Writers: An Interrogation of ‘Efficiency’ as Commonplace for Justifying Gatekeeping Practices and Policies”
Kacie Kiser, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Redesigning the Gate:
Theoretical Perspectives on Writing Program Design for Multilingual
Writers”
Angela Dadak, American University, Washington, DC, “‘Picking All Linguistic Locks’: Designing Writing Courses that Reflect Multilingual Realities”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 107

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 107

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

B.24 	 The Technological Gateway: Threshold or Barrier for
Basic Writers?
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Andrew McGuire, Northeastern Illinois University, Chicago
Speakers: Andrew McGuire, Northeastern Illinois University, Chicago,
“How Do I Do This: Student Negotiation of Classroom Technologies”
Abby Forster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Don’t You Know: Teacher Perceptions of Student Technological Literacy”
Marcia Buell, Northeastern Illinois University, Chicago, “Making It Work:
Technology as Classroom Practice”
Academic Writing

B.25 	 The Composition and Rhetoric of the Writing Teacher
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Matthew Capdevielle, University of Notre Dame, IN
Speakers: Mitch Nakaue, University of Iowa, Iowa City, “Scholarship, Tutoring, and the Makings of a Writing Fellow”
Matthew Capdevielle, University of Notre Dame, IN, “Literacies in Tension: Writing Center Tutors Teaching and Learning in Public Schools”
Patrick Clauss, University of Notre Dame, IN, “Shifting Identities: So Now
I’m a Writing Teacher, Too?”
Institutional and Professional

B.26 	 Restoring Trust: Validating Subjectivity, Context, and
Expertise in Writing Assessment
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Chair: Paul Walker, Murray State University, KY
Speakers: Paul Walker, Murray State University, KY, “Evidence and Implications of Intuitive Expertise in Assessing Writing”
Jeff Osborne, Murray State University, KY, “Expertise as Reliability: Toward
a Teacher-Centered Assessment Model”
Bob Broad, Illinois State University, Normal, “Subjectivity, Context, and
Trust: Validation as a Rhetorical Process”

108

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 108

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Writing Programs

B.27 	 The Vertical Writing Curriculum: Using Reaccreditation to
Integrate and Align Writing Instruction
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Wendy Sharer, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Speakers: Michelle Eble, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, “Working with Accreditation: Putting Writing Front and Center”
Wendy Sharer, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, “Shifting Writing
Foundations through Reaccreditation”
Will Banks, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, “Articulating WAC
through Reaccreditation”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.28 	 Playing at the Gate: Exploring the Possibilities for Play
and Pleasure in Developmental English
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Ann Del Principe, Kingsborough Community College, City University of New York, Brooklyn
Speakers: Ann Del Principe, Kingsborough Community College, City University of New York, Brooklyn, “No Place for Play?: Experimenting with
Play in Basic Writing”
Matthew Gartner, Kingsborough Community College, City University of
New York, Brooklyn, “Obstacles to Play in the Basic Writing Classroom”
Rachel Ihara, Kingsborough Community College, City University of New
York, Brooklyn, “All Work and No Play?: A Revised Understanding of the
Basic Writing Teacher’s Job”
Community, Civic and Public

B.29 	 The Heteronormative Gatekeeper: Queer (Im)Perceptibility
at the Gateway
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY
Speakers: Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York,
NY, “Millennial Equal Opportunity: Queer Undergraduates in the Writing Class”
Heather Branstetter, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Queer Professionalization: The Voice of Queer Graduate Students”
Kami Day, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS, “Community College Student as Eunuch: Desexualizing Writing Students”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 109

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 109

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.30 	 Gateway Paths for Negotiating the Middle: When
Opposing Sides Clash, Introducing Rhetorical
Strategies beyond Logos
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Janie Jaramillo Santoy, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Sarah Olivas, Texas State University-San Marcos, “‘The Innocence Is the Crime’: Finding What Lies between Academic Spaces
and Religious Fundamentalism”
Yazmin Lazcano-Pry, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Contesting Myths:
Mexican Immigrant Ethos and the Shaping of American Identity”
Jana Fornario, Texas State University-San Marcos, “Finding the Center: Mediating the Distance between High School and College for Texas Mexican
Students”
Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University-San Marcos, “The Importance of
Chican@ Rhetorical Appeals in American Rhetorical Situations”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

B.31 	 Through the Internets: Writing, Community, and Engagement in Online Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Jeff Swift, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Kate Maddalena, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Collaboration and Control: The Instructor Icon in a Hybrid Classroom”
Jeff Swift, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Disagreement Online:
Engaging Students in Productive Digital Dialogue”
Meagan Kittle Autry, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “‘Are you talking to me?’: Facilitating Community in a Hybrid Writing Classroom”
Lauren Clark, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Commenting, Communicating, and Collaborating: How to Foster Productive Discussion
Online”
Academic Writing

B.32 	 Conflict as Space for Agency
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Violet Dutcher, Eastern Mennonite University, Harrisonburg, VA
Speakers: Molly Daniel, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Transitioning Voice: Situating the ‘I’ in Academics”
Angela Clark-Oates, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Authoring Selves:
Negotiating the Gateway of Revise and Resubmit”
Sheryl Fontaine, California State University, Fullerton, “The Step-Daughter’s Karma: The Creative Synergy of Conflict”

110

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 110

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.33 	 Pious Users, Automated Authors: Cultural Gatekeeping in
Technological Documentation and Form
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2
Chair: Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: Wendy K. Z. Anderson, Michigan Technological University,
Houghton, “Codified: Recognizing Technological ‘Gateways’ of Coded
Existence in the Age of Digital Form”
John Sherrill, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “User-Centered, User-Produced: How Users Redefine Cultural Identities via
Browser Extension”
Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “Usable Burke:
The Piety of Documentation”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.34 	 Trajectories of Writing: Case Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Matt Davis, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Beth Kania-Gosche, Lindenwood University, St. Charles, MO,
“The Dissertation Gateway: Case Studies of Struggling ABD Students
in Education”
Kevin Roozen, Auburn University, AL, “Tracing Historical Trajectories of
Person and Practice: Cross-Contextual Perspectives of Literate Action
and Development”
Shuwen Li, University of Minnesota at Twin Cities, Minneapolis, “Everything that Rises must Converge: A Chinese/English Contrastive Rhetoric
Case Study”

B.35 	 Open Working Meeting of the Committee on Part-Time,
Adjunct or Contingent Labor
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Brad Hammer, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 111

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 111

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C Sessions: 1:45–3:00 p.m.
Featured Session

Should Basic Writing Be Placed on the Endangered
Species List?
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom D, Second Floor

Mike Rose

Lynn Quitman
Troyka

Peter Adams

These are truly worrisome times not only for basic writing but also for higher education’s equity agenda itself.
Cash-strapped states are cutting education budgets,
leading colleges to limit enrollments and cut classes
and student services. In addition, recent studies have
called into question the effectiveness of the developmental programs many of us have worked in for years.
Some policy makers are wondering—not fully in public—if we can any longer afford to educate everybody,
if we should ration our resources, directing them toward those who are already better prepared for college.
One step in many states has been to relocate all or most
basic writing in community colleges. In other states,
legislatures are installing a two-step process to eliminate remediation from college curricula: first, mandate
that the words “community” or “junior” be dropped
from the names of all public colleges and, second, after
a year or two, mandate that all former community or
junior colleges now offer BA degrees, without allotting
more funds for the expansions, which leads to reassigning funds from, and thereby reducing, remediation
programs. As Secretary of Education Arne Duncan has
announced on several occasions: “I want to get community colleges out of the remediation business.” Despite these alarming trends, in this presentation we will
also look at a number of promising developments in
basic writing: the possibility of reconceptualizing the
field as a larger discipline integrated with the teaching of reading and literary appreciation, innovative approaches to structuring basic writing and mainstreaming basic writers, increased attention to pedagogy and
faculty development, improved research, and increased
support from non-profit foundations.

112

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 112

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Chair:
Lynn Quitman Troyka
City College of New York, The City University of New York
Speakers:
Mike Rose
University of California, Los Angeles, “Climate Change and Its Effect on Basic
Writing”
Lynn Quitman Troyka
City College of New York, The City University of New York, “How Adaptation
Can Save Endangered Species”
Peter Adams
Community College of Baltimore County, “Signs of Recovery for an Endangered
Species”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 113

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 113

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.01 	 Gateways and Barriers: Disability Policy in the Writing
Classroom, Program Administration, and Composition’s
Disciplinary History
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Chair: Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver
Speakers: Nicole Quackenbush, University of Wyoming, Laramie, “Access
as Process: Reinterpreting University Disability Policy Statements in the
Composition Classroom”
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver, “Twenty Years On: Disability
Studies and Writing Program Administration”
Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, “Students’ Right to
The Own Languages and Literacies”
Community, Civic and Public

C.02 	 Alignment and Assessment as Gateways: High School,
	
Community College, Neighborhood Center, and University
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “Instructional
Rounds: Aligning and Assessing Regionally across Categories”
Courtney Stanton, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “Staying the
(Transfer) Course: A Study of Alignment at Four New Jersey Colleges”
Rachel Edwards, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “Assessment as Gateway: Enacting a Connection between High School and College Writing
Expectations”
Abby Orenstein, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “Assessing InsideOut”
Creative Writing

C.03 	 Three Writing Models in Three Different Programs:
WID, Undergraduate Writing Major, and Business
Communications
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Letitia Fowler, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Elizabeth Tomlinson, West Virginia University, Morgantown,
“Gateways into Writing in a Business School”
Susan Dinitz, University of Vermont, Burlington, “A Localized Model for
Writing Fellows: Supporting Students in the Transition to WID”
Laurie Grobman, Penn State Berks, Reading, “Undergraduate Writing Majors and the ‘Profession of Writing’”
Christian Weisser, Penn State Berks, Reading, “Undergraduate Writing Majors and the ‘Profession of Writing’”

114

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 114

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

History

C.04 	 Writing and Rhetoric in Catholic Colleges
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: S. Michael Halloran, Rensselaer Polytech Institute, Troy, NY
Speakers: Elizabeth Ada Wright, Rivier College, Portsmouth, NH, “‘Without
Schools, Religion Can Never Be Established’: The 19th-Century Writing
Curricular at St. Mary’s of Indiana”
Nan Johnson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Rhetorical Education for
Women of Conscience: Catholic Colleges for Women”
Steven Mailloux, Loyola Marymount University, Irvine, CA, “Eloquentia Perfecta and Jesuit Education, Then and Now”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.05 	 Bridging Spaces: Pedagogical Promises and Perils of
Hybrid Course Design for First-Year Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chair: Kimberly Harrison, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Kimberly Harrison, Florida International University, Miami,
“First-year Hybrid Writing Classes: National Contexts, Local Results”
Ben Lauren, Florida International University, Miami, “Building Bridges,
Building Community: Digital Literacy Narratives in the Hybrid Classroom”
Tania Lopez, Florida International University, Miami, “Virtual Gateways:
Teaching Digital Literacy through Collaborative CMS Design”
Cynthia Chinelly, Florida International University, Miami, “Physical
Spaces of Writing: The Hybrid Classroom”
Institutional and Professional

C.06 	 Defining Our Discipline: Labor Practices, TA Training, and
Professional Markers
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2
Chair: Lee Tesdell, Minnesota State University, Mankato
Speakers: James McDonald, University of Louisiana at Lafayette “One of
Many: The CCCC Statement in the Context of Other Position Statements
on Academic Labor”
Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, “Holding On, Letting
Go: ‘Our’ Curious Relationship to Discipline”
Kathleen Smyth, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “‘Wow, how am I going to do this!’ Balancing Acts and Roles as Graduate Student Writing
Teachers”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 115

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 115

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Language

C.07 	 Are We Really Down for the Get Down?: Nation
Languages, Translanguages, and the Politics of
Liberation
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: David Kirkland, Michigan State/New York University, East Lansing/NewYork
Speakers: David Kirkland, Michigan State/New York University, East Lansing/NewYork, “Our Language: Rhetorical Hybridity and Linguistic
Pluralism among Urban Youth”
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Toward Language and Language Diversity as Resource and a New Way of Being”
Victor Villanueva, Auburn University, AL, “Complex Matters: Issues of
Linguistic Diversity within a ‘Particularly American Context’”

C.08 	 Take My Words, Please: The Textual Gifts of Student
Writers
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chair: Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Elizabeth Boquet, Fairfield University, CT, “The Gift that Keeps
on Giving”
Jocelyn Boryczka, Fairfield University, CT, “Code Pink, Women in Black,
and Suspect Citizenship”
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Come On In, Have
Some Words”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives
Professional and Technical Writing

C.09 	 Patient Genres as Rhetorical Sites of Agency, Resistance,
and Expertise
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Chair: Susan Popham, University of Memphis, TN
Speakers: Lora Arduser, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Online Diabetes Educational Texts: Gateways Toward Progress or Roadblocks to Agency?”
Cynthia Ryan, University of Alabama at Birmingham, “‘Walk with Me’:
Narratives of Cancer Survival within a Homeless Community”
Susan Popham, University of Memphis, TN

116

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 116

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Research

C.10 	 Gateways for Methodology: Report on a Summer Seminar
for Building Disciplinary Research Capacity
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Charles Bazerman, Givertz Graduate School of Education, University
of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Charles Bazerman, Givertz Graduate School of Education, University of California, Santa Barbara, “The Need for Building Research
Capacity in Writing and Composition Studies”
Christiane Donahue, Dartmouth/Théodile, Hanover, NH, “Shaping and Realizing Opportunities for Developing Advanced Research Methods”
Richard Haswell, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi, “Projects from a
Summer Session: An Overview”
Respondent: Duane Roen, Arizona State University, Tempe
Writing Programs

C.11 	 Using Disciplinary Writing Assignments to Assess
Institutional Outcomes
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Carol Rutz, Carleton College, Northfield, MN
Speakers: John Bean, Seattle University, WA, “Closing the Loop: Using
Scaffolding Assignments Early in the Curriculum to Teach Undergraduate Research”
June Johnson, Seattle University, WA, “Using a Reflective Writing Prompt
to Assess Students’ Engagement with Social and Environmental Justice”
Carol Rutz, Carleton College, Northfield, MN, “Finding Evidence of Faculty Learning in Student Portfolios”
Theory

C.12 	 Genre—A User’s Guide: Applying Genre Theory to
Problems of Communication, Teaching, and Testing
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2
Chair: Meghan Roe, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth
Speakers: Meghan Roe, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, “Exigence
and Autism: A New Translation”
Nicole Green, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Beating the Test at Its Own
Game: Genre Awareness, the High School Classroom, and Hopes of
Subverting and Appeasing the Test”
Lorin Milotta, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Genre—A User’s Guide: Applying Genre Theory to Problems of Communication, Teaching, and Testing”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 117

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 117

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.13 	 Transfer: The Gateway to Writing in Multiple Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2
Chair: Heather Hill, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Misty Anne Wizenried, University of Washington, Seattle, “Situated Transfer: Transfer of Learning To, From, and Within Disciplinary
Writing Contexts”
Heather Hill, University of Washington, Seattle, “Telling What They
Know, Performing What They Say: Genre Awareness as the Gateway
to Writing in the University”
Deanna Mascle, Morehead State University, Mt. Sterling, KY, “Addressing
the Problems of Writing Assessment and Transfer with Writing Self-Efficacy Theory”
Elizabeth Fogle-Young, Miami-Jacobs Career College, Cincinnati, OH, “The
Writing Gateway from Career College to Career”
Academic Writing

C.14 	 Teaching Reading and Writing in New Media
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
Chair: Michael Bérubé, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Barclay Barrios, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, “A Funny
Thing Happened on the Way to Digital Literacy . . .”
Richard Miller, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, “Learning by Doing:
A Year of Thinking in Public”
Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “A More Capacious
Conception”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.15 	 The New Work of Forgery: Authenticating Identity in the
Work of Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Amy Robillard, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Kyle Jensen, University of North Texas, Denton, “I AM SPAM; or,
Writer’s Block in a Posthuman Era”
Ron Fortune, Illinois State University, Normal, “Forgery, ‘Common Sense,’
and the Work of Writing”
Amy Robillard, Illinois State University, Normal, “Ventriloquism and the
Desire to Believe: How the 9/11 Imposter Succeeded for So Long”

118

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 118

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.16 	 L2 Students as Writers and Readers
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Amy Ann Metcalf, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Amanda Hobmeier, University of Washington, Seattle, “Mixed
Modeling in L2 Writing Instruction: A Critical Analysis of Hybridized
Genre and Process Pedagogies”
Vanessa Kraemer, University of Louisville, KY, “Teaching and Listening
from a Translingual Starting Point: A Pedagogical Case Study”
Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Newton, MA, “Second Language Students’ Experiences with Reading Assignments”
Carole Center, Lasell College, Newton, MA, “Second Language Students’
Experiences with Reading Assignments”
Academic Writing

C.17 	 Learning Outside the Classroom: Academic Support
Services and the Arts
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
Chair: Alanna Frost, University of Alabama, Huntsville
Speakers: Elaine Hays, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA, “Camp
Transition: Stories of Writing Development from Tutors and Students
during a College Transition Program”
Krista Petrosino, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Some (Still) Like It
Hot: Re-envisioning Transdisciplinarity and Collaboration in First-Year
Composition and Jazz Performance”
Heidi Maria Noyes, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, “Gateways
into the Postsecondary Mainstream Institution: Access to Academic Support Services for Deaf College Student Writers”
Community, Civic and Public

C.18 	 Civic Engagement in Responding to Crisis
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair:Warren Rochelle, University of Mary Washington, Fredericksburg,
VA
Speakers: Andrew Bourelle, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Why
Should Rural Montanans Care What Happens in the Gulf of Mexico?:
When English Students Read, Write, and Try to Do Something About the
BP Oil Spill From 2,000 Miles Away”
Crystal Colombini, University of Nevada, Reno, “Economic Literacies in
Transitional Times: Writing about the Rhetoric of the Informed Consumer”
Julie Staggers, University of Nevada-Las Vegas, “Envisioning the Invisible
Risk: I-131, Thyroid Cancer and Public Discourse from Hanford to
Fukishima”
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 119

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 119

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Writing Programs

C.19 	 The Transition to Parentheses: New Boundaries for a
Non-Tenure-Track Writing Program
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Chair: Lacey Donohue, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: Lacey Donohue, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
“Critical Reasoning and the Curricular Transition”
Jerome Edwards, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, “Professional Jargon and Classroom Access”
James Condon, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, “Graduate
Training and Program Shifts”
Theory

C.20 	 Poststructural and Posthuman Rhetorics
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2
Chair: Teddi Fishman, Clemson University, Tallahassee, FL
Speakers: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Reinventing Inventio: A Post-Human Perspective on Rhetorical Invention”
A. Samuel Kimball, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, “Evolutionary Psychology (Deconstructed) and the Constitutive Limits of What
Can Be Taught about Writing”
Leslie Bradshaw, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, “Concurrent Mediations, Concurrent Selves: Using Foucault’s Four Technologies to
Theorize Digital Writers”
Information Technologies

C.21 	 Assessing the Emerging Spectrum of Tutoring Services in
Digital Spaces: A Concurrent Session
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Co-Chairs: Matthew Schultz, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY
Melody Pickle, Kaplan University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL
Speakers: Michaella Hammond, Kaplan University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL,
“‘Oh, Pioneers!’ Crafting Accessible DIY OWL Student Resources”
Jessica Perolio, St. Louis University, MO, “St. Ignatius Got a IPad: An Approach to Holistic Writing Pedagogy for the Virtual World”
Jesse Kavadlo, Maryville University, St. Louis, MO, “Crossing the Virtual
Threshold: Training Peer Tutors to Respond Electronically”

120

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 120

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.22 	 International Teaching of Written English: Brazil, Turkey,
and Afghanistan
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Chair: Aimee Krall-Lanoue, Concordia University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: Michael Edwards, United States Military Academy, West Point,
NY, “You Can’t Lead a Teaching Seminar in Body Armor: Reinventing
the University in Afghanistan”
Neval Avci, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Nationalism 101: Writing Instruction in the Turkish Higher Educational System”
Katia Morais, Universidade Federal do Pampa, Bagé, Brazil, “Practicing
Multilingualism in a Contested Space: Composing the Deep South of
Brazil”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.23 	 Inviting Campus Conflict into the Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Meg Scott, College of Charleston, SC
Speakers: Sarah Bowles, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, “From Institutional ‘Blunder’ to Emergent Occasion: Confronting Homophobia on
a Christian Campus”
Amy Hodges Hamilton, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, “From Institutional ‘Blunder’ to Emergent Occasion: Confronting Homophobia on a
Christian Campus”
Denise Landrum-Geyer, Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, “‘Is that a gun in your pocket?’ When a Conceal-Carry Bill Became a Class Text”
Wioleta Fedeczko, Utah Valley University, Orem, “Undocumented Immigrants in Higher Ed: ‘Are we teaching a new generation that it’s okay
not to follow the law?’”
Community, Civic and Public

C.24 	 Productive Tensions: The Relevance of the Federal
Writers’ Project to 21st Century America
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Speakers: Jerrold Hirsch, Truman State University, Kirksville, MO, “Learning from the FWP”
Catherine Hobbs, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Writing History Inside and Out: The Academy and the Guide”
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY, “Partnering with
a Historical Society: Archival and Oral History Research in Pursuit of
Freedom”
Respondent: Shannon Carter, Texas A&M Commerce
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 121

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 121

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Theory

C.25 	 Procedures, Play, and Possibility Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair: James Brown, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: James Brown, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Paignion: An
Immersive Style of Engagement”
Alex Reid, University of Buffalo, NY, “Minimal Rhetoric”
Matt King, University of Texas, Austin, “Rhetorical Gaming and Procedural
Engagement”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.26 	 Girls from the Hood: Writing Gateways to Transition Low
Income, First-Generation Women Students and Their
Families for College Success
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Risa P. Gorelick, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ
Speakers: Risa P. Gorelick, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Tutoring Girls from the Hood: Gateways to Academic Success for Low
Income, First-Generation, Women Students”
Katherine M. Buck, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Confessions of a Student Life Dean: Providing Support and Education for Girls
from the Hood and Their Families”
Mary Chayko, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Gateways to
Girls from the Hood: Linking Sociology and Writing Communities”
Vanessa Molina, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Gateways
from the Hood to College: A First-Generation Student’s Perspective of
What Was Lost and Gained”
Kathleen R. Hunter, College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Teaching
Girls from the Hood: Learning and Relearning the Three R’s and Other
Important Lessons”
Academic Writing

C.27 	 Closing the Gap between Identities and Writing in the
Academy
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Charles Riss, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Speakers: Charles Riss, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Melissa Riss, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Samantha Howard, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi

122

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 122

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.28 	 The Architecture of the ePortfolio as a Gateway to
Learning in the Core Curriculum: Responding to
Instructional, Curricular, and Institutional Challenges
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Emily Miller, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
Speakers: Kenneth Koons, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “Designing
Interdisciplinary Core Courses: Inviting Innovation, Establishing Boundaries”
Christina McDonald, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “An Institutional Foundation: Linking the ePortfolio and Writing Across the Curriculum”
Mary Ann Dellinger, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “Se habla W:
ePortfolios, WAC, and the Acquisition of Second Languages/Cultures”
Research

C.29 	 Methodological Disconnects: Tensions in Teaching,
Learning, and Doing Qualitative Research in Writing
and Rhetoric
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Co-Chairs: Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Michael Pennell, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Speakers: Michael Pennell, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Gateway and/or Epicenter?: Institutionalizing Research Methods in Graduate
Education”
Joannah Portman-Daley, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Creating
Gateways for Digital Writing Research: The Ethics of Researching in/
with Social Media Spaces”
Tim Amidon, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Genre Ecologies,
Praxis, and Multimodality: A Pre-Dissertation Reflection on the Methodology/Methods Distinction”
Matthew Ortoleva, Johnson and Wales University, Providence, RI, “From
Activism to Anxiety: What Grad Students Should Expect from Community-based Research”
Nedra Reynolds, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Micro-Studies:
Preparing Graduate Researchers before Graduate School”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 123

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 123

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.30 	 Re-Visiting Stephen North’s Concept of Lore: Gateway to
Writing Teacher Agency
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: James Zebroski, University of Houston, TX
Speakers: James Zebroski, University of Houston, TX, “Lore and the Development of a New Rhetoric and Composition Ph.D.: The Ways Teaching Commonplaces in Composition Studies Shape a New Curriculum”
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, “Lore and Development of Writing Teachers in a Summer Institute: Why and How Public
School Teachers Change Course”
David Seitz, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, “Lore and the Development
of an Innovative Textbook for Writing Students: Re-Inventing Literacy
Studies as Literacy Pedagogy”
Information Technologies

C.31 	 Bodies Writing in Space: Rhetorics of Natural-User
Interfaces
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
Chair: Marilyn Cooper, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: David Rieder, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Hands
Free, You’re Up: The Politics of the Interface-as-Body”
Anne Frances Wysocki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “The Autodidact at the Alphabet”
Kara van de Graaf, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Only Kinect:
Embodied Interfaces and Aesthetic Engagement in the First-Year Composition Classroom”
History

C.32 	 Literacy as Political and Economic Gateway
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Jeannie Waller, University of Arkansas, Little Rock
Speakers: Tabetha Adkins, Texas A&M University-Commerce, “Judicial
Gateways: The Supreme Court’s Vexed Relationship with Literacy Tests”
Kirk Branch, Montana State University, Bozeman, “Grandfathers and Understanding–or–How to Write a Literacy Test that Disenfranchises the
Right People”
Joseph Bartolotta, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, “Problematizing
Literacy as an Economic Gateway”

124

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 124

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Theory

C.33 	 Imports/Exports: The Rhetorical Valences of Twenty-First
Century Gateways
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Conor Shaw-Draves, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Derek Risse, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Humane Literacies: Rhetoric, Ethics, and the Detroit Zoo’s Literacy Initiatives”
Michael Ristich, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Without Content:
Towards a Rhetoric of Anarchism”
Conor Shaw-Draves, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Common
Spaces, Common Places: Aristotle, the Internet, and Modern Rhetoric”
Information Technologies

C.34 	 Online Identity Construction in Video Games and Blogs
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Jacqueline Preston, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Speakers: Lee Sherlock, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Mapping a Network of Video Gaming, Queer Rhetorics, and Fandom”
Melissa Forbes Larabee, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Bros
Compose Hos: Constructing the Public and Controlling Dissent on a
Men’s Lifestyle Website”
Elizabeth Chamberlain, University of Louisville, KY, “DIY Subversion:
The Anti-Consumerist Rhetoric of Homemade Fashion Blogs”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

C.35 	 Reconsidering the Uses of Response
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Jonathan Evans, Texas Woman’s University, Denton
Speakers: Sheri Rysdam, Washington State University, Pullman, “Lost in
the Liminal Spaces of Response: Feedback, Feedforward, and the Use of
Authentic Response as a Strategy for Helping Students Find Their Way”
Lisa Johnson-Shull, Washington State University, Pullman, “Lost in the
Liminal Spaces of Response: Feedback, Feedforward, and the Use of
Authentic Response as a Strategy for Helping Students Find Their Way”
Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara, “The Rhetoric of
Teachers’ Comments Revisited”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 125

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 125

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C.36 	 Open Working Meeting of the Special Interest Group on
Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: William Thellin, University of Akron, OH

126

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 126

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

D Sessions: 3:15–4:30 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Jimmy Santiago Baca
Writing as Spiritual Discourse
Renaissance, Landmark Ballroom 4, Lobby Level
Chair: Deborah Appleman, Carleton College, Northfield, MN
Born in New Mexico of Chicano and Apache descent, Jimmy Santiago Baca was raised first by his
grandmother and was later sent to an orphanage. A
runaway at age thirteen, it was after Baca was sentenced to five years in a maximum security prison
at the age of twenty-one that he began to turn his
life around: there he learned to read and write and
found his passion for poetry. During a fateful con- Jimmy Santiago Baca
flict with another inmate, Jimmy was shaken by the
voices of Neruda and Lorca, and made a choice that
would alter his destiny. Baca sent three of his poems to Denise Levertov, the
poetry editor of Mother Jones. The poems were published and became part of
Immigrants in Our Own Land, published in 1979, the year he was released from
prison. He earned his GED later that same year. Like many Southwestern writers, Baca identifies with the land around him and the myths that are part of his
culture. He is the winner of the Pushcart Prize, the American Book Award, the
National Poetry Award, two Southwest Book Awards, and the International Hispanic Heritage Award.
His memoir, A Place To Stand, won the prestigious International Award and
tells of his life in prison, where he discovered the power of language. The memoir is being made into a documentary feature film—examining Jimmy’s growth
from illiterate convict to award-winning poet, the film will demonstrate that
there is always hope to change one’s life. He is at work on his second memoir,
The Fisher King. He is the author of a collection of stories The Importance of a
Piece of Paper and a novel, A Glass of Water (2009), both published by Grove/
Atlantic. A Glass of Water was released to critical acclaim and is a gripping tale
of family, loyalty, ambition, and revenge, which offers us a glimpse into the tragedies unfurling at this very moment at and around our country’s borders.
Baca’s books of poetry include: The Esai Poems, the first of four books under
the series title Breaking Bread with the Darkness; Winter Poems Along the Rio

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012 127

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 127

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Grande (New Directions); Healing Earthquakes; C-Train & Thirteen Mexicans;
Black Mesa Poems; Martin & Meditations on the South Valley, for which he won
The American Book Award; and Immigrants in Our Own Land.
Baca has devoted his post-prison life to writing and teaching others who are
overcoming hardship. To that end, he published a guidebook for teachers entitled Adolescents On The Edge, co-authored with ReLeah Cosset Lent, to offer
a completely new approach to teaching at risk adolescents (Heinemann, 2011).
He has conducted hundreds of writing workshops in prisons, community centers,
libraries, and universities throughout the country. He is also producing a two hour
documentary about the power of literature and how it can change lives.
Extended Response: Deborah Appleman, Carleton College, Northfield, MN
“Writing as a Liberatory Gateway”

128

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 128

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Featured Double Session

Genres in Transition
3:15-4:30: Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G,
Second Floor
4:45-6:00: Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G,
Second Floor
Recently, scholars have argued that genre theory is
uniquely positioned to illuminate how writers transition between writing tasks, situations, and discourse
communities (Devitt, Bawarshi, and Miller). This
double session will seek to answer three questions:
(1) how do genres facilitate transitions for writers—
between high school and first year writing, between
college writing tasks, between college and the workplace? (2) how do genres themselves transition across
time, audiences, or professional boundaries? (3) how
must genre theory itself transition in order to account
for changing rhetorical situations? The session will
begin with a roundtable, with each of the speakers giving a five-minute overview of their research. The second half will involve three small-group workshops on
the topics of genres and transition, genres in transition,
and transitions in genre theory.
Chair:
Charles Bazerman
University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers:
Jordynn Jack
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Discovering Science through Genres”
Katie Rose Guest Pryal
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Discovering Law through Genres”
Anis Bawarshi
University of Washington, Seattle, “Using Genres to
Facilitate High Road Transfer”

Jordynn Jack

Katie Rose Guest
Pryal

Anis Bawarshi

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 129

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 129

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Amy Devitt

Rebecca S.
Nowacek

Janet Giltrow

No photo
available

Carolyn R. Miller

Catherine F.
Schryer

Jane
Danielewicz

Mary Jo Reiff

Jason Swarts

Elizabeth Wardle

Amy Devitt
University of Kansas, Lawrence, “Genre Baggage”
Rebecca S. Nowacek
Marquette University, Milwaukee, “Tutoring for Transfer: The Role of Genre
Knowledge in Writing Center Work”
Janet Giltrow
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, “Genre and Popularization”
Carolyn R. Miller
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Genre and Historical Transitions”

130

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 130

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Catherine F. Schryer
Ryerson University, Toronto, “Genres in Professional Communication Contexts”
Jane Danielewicz
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, “Genre and Rhetorical Agency: Considering Autobiography”
Mary Jo Reiff
University of Kansas, Lawrence, “The Role of Genre Success/Enjoyment in
Transitioning to New Writing Contexts”
Jason Swarts
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Enacted Genre”
Elizabeth Wardle
University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Informing Pedagogies and Programs
with Genre Theory”

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.01 	 From Fifth to First: Digital Delivery Recast as Invention
and Composition Theory
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Chanon Adsanatham, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Chanon Adsanatham, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Bre Garrett, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Aurora Matzke, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Academic Writing

D.02 	 Generation 1.5 Students’ Transition to College Reading
and Writing: Strategies for Placement, Teaching, and
Program Development
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Chair: Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin-Marathon, Wausau
Speakers: Todd Ruecker, University of Texas at El Paso, “Standardized Testing: Creating a Hierarchy of College Readiness”
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin-Marathon, Wausau, “Placement, Pedagogy, and Generation 1.5 College Writers”
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin-Marathon, Wausau, “Critical Reading and Multilingual Students’ Development as College Writers”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 131

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 131

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.03 	 Reimagining the Composition Textbook
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2
Chair: Michael Lee McGinnis, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Marian Crotty, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Beyond
Bennetton: The Ubiquitous but Unsophisticated Representation of Diversity in FYC Textbooks”
Lauren Cagle, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, “Reading the Way into
Writing: Using Bakhtin’s Speech Genres to Reimagine the Composition
Textbook”
Sarah Etlinger, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Writing on the
Threshold: Examining Recent Composition Textbooks as Digital Gateways”
Theory

D.04 	 Threshold Spaces: Rhetoric and Contested Identity
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Martha Marinara, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Martha Marinara, University of Central Florida, Orlando,
“Thresholds and Shifting Borders”
David Wallace, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Crossing the
Threshold without Leaving the Borderlands Behind”
Jamie McDaniel, Pittsburg State University, KS, “Professionalizing the
Self: Amplifying Marginalized Identities through Document Design in
the Technical Composition Classroom”
Rob Faunce, Stony Brook University, NY, “Contested Bodies in First-Year
Writing”
Research

D.05 	 Pragmatic Inquiry as a Gate(way) to Earned Insight:
Investigating Goal Setting in Writing Conferences
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Roberta Kjesrud, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Speakers: Sarah Liggett, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, “Pragmatic Inquiry Defined”
Kerri Jordan, Mississippi College, Clinton, “Pragmatic Inquiry Applied to
Goal Setting in Writing Center Conferences”
Steve Price, Mississippi College, Clinton, “Pragmatic Inquiry Scrutinized:
Analyzing and Mapping the Research Process”

132

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 132

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Community, Civic and Public

D.06 	 Communication at the Threshold of Civic Change: Rural
and Urban Epideictic as Transcendent Social Action
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chair: Victor Villanueva, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Donna Evans, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, “Kairotic
Entelechy as Gate to Epideictic Literacies”
Jerry Petersen, Marygrove College, Detroit, MI, “‘Born of Fire,’ ‘Imported
From Detroit’: Don’t Forget the Motor City”
Cori Brewster, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, “Pedagogical Implications: Community Epideictic as Civic Literacy”
Respondent: Victor Villanueva, Auburn University, AL
Creative Writing

D.07 	 Reflecting through Writing Assessments and Validation
Research
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Elizabeth Vogel, Arcadia University, Glenside, PA
Speakers: Kristen Getchell, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Student
Perceptions of Validity in Writing Placement”
William Carpenter, High Point University, NC, “Teaching for Meta-Cognition and Transfer: How Longitudinal Studies of Writing Can Inform
Composition Curricula”
Eden Pearson, Des Moines Area Community College, IA, “The Squishy
and the Gnarly: Reflective Portfolios as Writing Gateways in Individual
and Program Assessments”
Alan Hutchison, Des Moines Area Community College, IA, “The Squishy
and the Gnarly: Reflective Portfolios as Writing Gateways in Individual
and Program Assessments”
History

D.08 	 Redefining Civic Engagement: Gateway Sites of
Rhetorical Education, 1845–1925
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2
Chair: Nan Johnson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Pamela VanHaitsma, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Rhetorical Education for Romantic Engagement”
Paige VanOsdol, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Women’s Elocution
Pedagogy: Regendering Rhetorical Education”
Kate White, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne, “Inherent
Contradictions: Rhetorical Education for Citizenship in the General Federation of Women’s Clubs”
Respondent: Jessica Enoch, University of Pittsburgh, PA

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 133

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 133

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

D.09 	 Graduate Programs as Gateway to WPA Work? Or, What
WPAs Don’t Learn from School
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Lauren Fitzgerald, Yeshiva University, New York, NY
Speakers: Lauren Fitzgerald, Yeshiva University, New York, NY, “Models
for Writing Center Director Ethos”
Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic, “From
ESL to WAC”
Alfred E. Guy, Jr., Yale University, New Haven, CT, “Honoring the Teacher
in the Room”
History

D.10 	 Literacy Origins: Narratives of Learning Sites
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Donora Hillard, Wayne State University, St. Claire Shores, MI
Speakers: Samantha NeCamp, Midway College, KY, “Telling Our Story:
An Analysis of Origin Narratives for Three Literacy Teaching Organizations”
Lavina Ensor, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, “Writing
Centers as Alternative or Supplemental Learning Sites: Two Histories of
Individualized Writing Instruction at UNC-G, 1970-1995”
Lance Cummings, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Building the Immigrant
Gateway: The ‘Roberts Method’ and the YMCA Classroom”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.11 	 From “Black English” to World English: Multilingualism
and Multimodality in and across Local and Global
Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Steven Fraiberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
“Mapping Multilingual-Multimodal Literacy Practices: Tracing Writing
across Classrooms, Communities, and Cultures”
David Green Jr., Hampton University, VA, “Word-Work as Composition
Training: Hip-Hop Music, African American Rhetoric, and Teaching
Revision as a Critical Practice”
Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Code
Meshing Chinese and English: Studying Multilingual Writing in Global
Contexts”
Respondent: Keith Gilyard, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park

134

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 134

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Writing Programs

D.12 	 Gateways to Response Strategies That Work for Our
Students AND for Ourselves: Exploring New Territority
for Novice and Experienced Teachers
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair: Randi Browning, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Olivia Walling, University of California, Santa Barbara, “How
Novice Instructors Develop Response Strategies: Identities in Transition”
Randi Browning, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Transitioning
to New Practices: Experienced Teachers Testing the Boundaries of Their
Convictions”
Mashey Bernstein, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Learning New
Tricks: Old Dogs Exploring New Territory Step by Step”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.13 	 Composing Place and Self: Travel as Metaphor and
Motive for Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2
Chair: Hephzibah Roskelly, University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Speakers: Jacob Babb, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, “Travel
Writing as a Heuristic Genre: Composing and Revising Identity”
Ken Autrey, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC, “Bruce Chatwin, The
Songlines, and the Rhetoric of Travel Writing”
Jim Bowman, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY, “Tall Tales, Travel
Writing, and Rhetorical Pedagogy: Teaching the Work of Greg Mortenson
after 60 Minutes”
David Farley, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “‘Passport, please . . .’:
Composing Bodies in Freshman Writing and Service Learning”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.14 	 The Art and Science of Applied Rhetoric: Nursing,
Marketing, and Legal Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: ZiYi Jiang, California State University, San Bernardino
Speakers: Helen Lee, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “‘An Eye
to the Future’: Creative Nonfiction Writing Rear-ends Legal Writing”
Kristopher Lotier, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
“Marketing Composition: Selling Our Skills without Selling Our Souls”
Barbara Duffey, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Poetry as a Gateway
to Empathy: Creative Writing Assignments for Nurses in Composition
Courses”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 135

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 135

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.15 	 Authority through Gameplay: Videogames as Discursive
Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
Chair: Matthew S. S. Johnson, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Speakers: Matthew S. S. Johnson, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville,
“Authoring the Character: Imagined Consciousness in Gameplay”
Rebekah Shultz Colby, University of Denver, CO, “Authoring the Player:
ESL Students Write to Play”
Richard Colby, University of Denver, CO, “Authoring the Pedagogy: Perspectives on Gaming and Writing”
Institutional and Professional

D.16 	 Teaching and Administering Writing in Global Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY
Speakers: Doreen Starke-Meyerring, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec,
Canada, “Globally Networked Learning Environments as Critical Sites of
WPA in Globalizing Higher Education”
Rebecca Dingo, University of Missouri, Columbia, “Transnational Connectivities and the Global Politics of WAC”
Jennifer Wingard, University of Houston, TX, “Disposable Drudgery: Outsourcing Goes to College”
Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Vancouver, “Mapping and Exploiting Transnational Writing Programs in U.S. Community Colleges”
Respondent: Christiane Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Information TEchnologies

D.17 	 Multimedia Online Cases in Technical Fields:
Role Playing in Multiple Perspectives across Multiple
Courses as Gateway
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Chair: David Russell, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: David Russell, Iowa State University, Ames
Jacob Rawlins, Iowa State University, Ames
Jonathan Balzotti, Iowa State University, Ames

136

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 136

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

D.18 	 Gateway to the Danger Zone: Technical Communication’s
Considerations of Feminisms, Relationships,
Representations
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: Kellie Sharp-Hoskins, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Erin Clark Frost, Illinois State University, Normal, “Forging
Connections: Interlacing Feminisms, Technical Communication, and
Gender Studies”
Kellie Sharp-Hoskins, Illinois State University, Normal, “Who Counts,
What Counts? Representing and Revising Conceptualizations of Rhetorical Bodies”
Marie Moeller, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse, “Food Fight: Cookbook Rhetorics in Technical Communication”
Research

D.19 	 Understanding Students’ Source Choices: Insights from
the Citation Project and LILAC Project
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: James P. Purdy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, Madison, NJ, “Statistical
Analysis of Students’ Source Choices”
Janice R. Walker, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “How Students
Find and Evaluate Sources”
Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY, “Pedagogical Causes
and Rhetorical Consequences of Students’ Source Choices”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.20 	 Cross-Border Collaboration in Charting a Department’s
Future: Toward a North-American Conception of Rhetoric
and Writing Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Judith Kearns, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada
Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada
Tracy Whalen, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada
Respondent: Jaqueline McLeod Rogers, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 137

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 137

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Writing Programs

D.21 	 Directed Self-Placement: Widening Institutional
Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2
Chair: Dan Melzer, California State Sacramento
Speakers: Amy Heckathorn, California State Sacramento
Dan Melzer, California State Sacramento
Fiona Glade, California State Sacramento
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.22 	 (Ad)Ministering to Writing through Multiple Sites: Writing
Centers, Teaching Centers, and College-Wide Outcomes
Assessment
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Barbara Lutz, University of Delaware, Newark, “Breaking
Ground for Writing Center-Graduate Writing Initiatives”
Cynthia Crimmins, York College of Pennsylvania
Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania, “Using the ‘Framwork
for Success in Post-Secondary Writing’ to Guide College-Wide Writing
and Assessment: A Dean’s Perspective”
Amy Propen, York College of Pennsylvania, “How Professional Learning
Communities Can Help Foster a College-Wide Culture of Writing”
Community, Civic and Public

D.23 	 Service Learning and Engaged Scholarship: Relating
People and Programs
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Stephanie Schatz, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Margaret Strain, University of Dayton, OH, “What Happens after
the Service Learning Class? Institutionalizing Sustained Engagement”
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Integrating Engaged
Scholarship into First-Year Composition Courses”
Erin Clark, St. Mary’s University, Winona, Minnesota, “Assessing Service:
The Role of Engaged Scholarship in Faculty Development and Student
Writing Outcomes”
Stephanie Schatz, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Citizens of the
World: Service Learning and Transnational Engagement”

138

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 138

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Academic Writing

D.24 	 Reflection and Rhetorical Knowledge as Gateways to
Transfer
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Speakers: Irene Clark, California State University, Northridge and Los
Angeles, “Rhetorical Knowledge and Genre Awareness as Gateway to
Transfer”
Duncan Carter, Portland State University, OR, “Gateways to Learning New
Genres: An Inductive Approach”
Barbara Jo Krieger, State University of New York, Potsdam, “Gateways
to an Increasingly Complex and Diverse World: Framing Argument as
Inquiry”
Information Technologies

D.25 	 Secondary Orality and Digital Mobocracy
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Ethan Sproat, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Jonathan Wallin, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Digital Assessment for the Masses, or What Should Be Done About Online
Writing Evaluation?”
Alexandra Layne, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Feminisms,
Counterpublics, and Building a Room of One’s Own in Online Gaming
Communities”
Ethan Sproat, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Secondary Orality
and the Birther Conspiracy”
Cody Reimer, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Anonymity,
Autonomy, and Antagonism: Analyzing Anonymous’ Activism”
Respondent: John Walter, Independent Scholar, Washington, DC
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.26 	 Thirdspace Portals: A Hybrid/Writing Studio Model for
First-Year Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Michelle Miley, University of Houston, TX
Speakers: Mary Gray, University of Houston, TX, “Developing Spaces:
Configuring and Assessing the Hybrid/Studio Model”
Eric Higgins, University of Houston, TX, “Triadic Nodes: The Role of the
Instructor in Relation to Facilitator and Student”
Mark Sursavage, University of Houston, TX, “In-Between Spaces: The Role
of the Facilitator”
Michelle Miley, University of Houston, TX, “Outside Observations: The
Writing Center Portal”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 139

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 139

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.27 	 Digital Literacy Narratives: Authors, Audiences, and
Contexts
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Jamie Thorton, Kaplan University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL
Speakers: Douglas Walls, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Tracing
Literacy Ecologies in the Digital Age through Literacy Narratives and
Social Media”
Ashly Bender, University of Louisville, KY, “Mobilizing YouTube: Soldiers, PTSD, and Digital Composition”
Amy Stornaiuolo, University of California-Berkeley, “Cosmopolitan Composing: Writing for Global Audiences”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.28 	 Gateway, Wall, or Treadmill?: Does Learning from
First-Year Writing Transfer?
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 223, Level 2
Chair: Thomas Girshin, Binghamton University, NY
Speakers: Thomas Girshin, Binghamton University, NY, “Positivism, Relativism, and the Crisis of Knowledge in First-Year Writing”
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University-San Marcos, “‘Que te llevas de’
First-Year Writing?: Three Latino Students’ First-Year Writing Experiences”
Matthew Levy, Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, WA, “First-Year Writing
as Transitional Experience”
Deborah Holdstein, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, “First-Year Writing and
the Fallacy of Transition”
Respondent: Susan Miller, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.29 	 Gateways into the Disciplines: Navigating Different
Disciplinary Contexts to Support Writing Across Campus
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Nicole Guinot Varty, Wayne State University, Detroit
Speakers: Becky Morrison, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Dave Nassar, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Nicole Guinot Varty, Wayne State University, Detroit

140

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 140

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.30 	 Moving Beyond Theory: Issues of Praxis in Wiki
Instruction
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Matthew Vetter, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Matthew Vetter, Ohio University, Athens, “Implementing Curricula: The Wikipedia Writing Assignment”
Carra Leah Hood, Richard Stockton College of New Jersey, Pomona, “Wikipedia as Writing Teacher”
Matthew Barton, St. Cloud State University, MN, “Gamifying Wiki Assessment: Using Videogame Design Principles to Enhance Wiki-Based Writing Projects”
Writing Programs

D.31 	 Checking Up on Wired Writing Programs: Emerging
Perspectives on Program-Wide Technology Integration
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Justin Jory, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs
Speakers: Justin Jory, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs, “What’s
Reform Got to Do with It? Mapping Unsustainable Technology Practices
to Plan Responsive Change”
Brian Ballentine, West Virginia University, Morgantown, “All That We
Leave Behind: Ranking Program Focus to Include/Exclude Technology”
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, “The WPA as Technorhetorician: Balancing Technological and Pedagogical ‘Best Practices’
with Stakeholder Needs and Local Limitations”
Will Hochman, Stamford Connecticut State University, Branford, “Stages
of Digital Composition in FY Writing Programs: When Do We Reach the
Point Where ‘Maybe’ becomes ‘Must’?”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.32 	 Genre in the Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Paula Harrington, Colby College, Waterville, ME
Speakers: Susan Chaudoir, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada,
“Writing Assignments and Dominant Genres: Gateways to Understanding Writing in the Disciplines”
Robert Mendoza, California State University, Los Angeles, “The Rhetoric
of Music Blogs”
Karla Lyles, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “Not Just Telling
Stories: The Place of the Literacy Autobiography in the Basic Writing
Classroom”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 141

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 141

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

D.33 	 Undergraduates Socially Constructing the English
Curriculum: New Media Writing’s Impact on the
Teaching of English
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Chair: Robert Koch, University of North Alabama, Florence
Speakers: Deborah Bailey, University of North Alabama, Florence
Robert Koch, University of North Alabama, Florence
Nicholas Mauriello, University of North Alabama, Florence
Research

D35 	 Award-Winning Research in Written Communication
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
Chair: Christina Haas, University of Minnesota, MN
Speakers: Katie Vieira, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Undocumented Writers, The American Dream, and College ‘Papers’”
Jodie Butler, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, “Instructing Global Revision: A Tutorial They Asked For”
Respondent: John R. Hayes, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA

D.36	 Gateways to Literacies: The Digital Archives of Literacy
Narratives
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
Chair: Cindy Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas, El Paso
John Scenters-Zapico, University of Texas, El Paso
Louis Herman, University of Texas, El Paso

D.37 	 Open Working Meeting of the Committee on Globalization
on Postsecondary Writing Instruction and Research
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: David Russell, Iowa State University, Ames

142

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 142

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

E Sessions: 4:45–6:00 p.m.
Featured Session

Gateways to Leadership: A Reflective Roundtable on
Opportunities Within NCTE and CCCC
Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
With an organization as large and diverse as CCCC,
individuals can get lost in the array of opportunities to
serve and to collaborate with others. Some may feel
daunted by the prospect of “big” roles in the organization, or simply not know where to start looking for
a role that suits them. Still others may think they are
not qualified, or well-suited, to occupy a leadership
role. Unfortunately, many of these members’ talents
go unrecognized as a result. This is a problem that the
CCCC wants to solve, through information gathering
and sharing. How did that member decide to be a program chair? How did that other member decide to join
a committee? Where do I find the committee that might
want to hear my ideas? We need to share our stories
and help one another find leadership opportunities so
that all members have the chance at joining the conversation—or finding their own personal gateways to
leadership in CCCC. This featured session is therefore
designed to help conference newcomers (and old timers, and those who are in between) think about ways in
which they might seek out and occupy small or large
leadership roles in our organization. The eight featured
presenters, who represent a range of institutional types,
will each speak for 5 minutes regarding how and why

Mike Palmquist

Shirley Rose

Cherly Glenn

Rhonda Grego

Carlos Salinas

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 143

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 143

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Paul Puccio

Victor Villanueva

Clint Gardner

they became involved in various leadership roles—from CCCC committees, to
journal and book series editorships, to section and program chairs. The majority of the session time will be reserved for discussion, led by questions and
comments from the audience. We hope that at the conclusion of this roundtable
session, audience members will feel empowered with information, and helpful
advice, that will lead them to seek out new roles in the CCCC, and to make
important contributions to the work and mission of the organization.
Chair:
Kelly Ritter
University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers:
Cheryl Glenn
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Leadership, Mentorship, and
Trusting Collaborations”
Rhonda Grego
Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC, “On the Exercise of Professional
Understanding”
Mike Palmquist
Colorado State University, Durango, “You May Ask Yourself, Well, How Did I
Get Here?: The Talking Heads as Career Counselors”
Shirley Rose
Arizona State University, Tempe, “Showing Up and Showing Off: Leadership
as Visibility Work”
Carlos Salinas
University of Texas at El Paso, “Small Steps Toward Leadership”
Paul Puccio
Bloomfield College, Bloomfield, NJ, “A Journey of Service and Sensibility at
CCC”
Victor Villanueva
Auburn University, AL, “Finding, Creating, and Working the Network”
Clint Gardner
Salt Lake Community College, UT, “The Two Year College Teacher: Finding
Leadership Opportunities”
144

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 144

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Academic Writing

E.01 	 Research, Library Reference, and Bibliographic Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Susan Mueller, St. Louis College of Pharmacy, MO
Speakers: Stephanie Loomis Pappas, Northeastern University, Boston,
MA, “From the Other Side of the Reference Desk: Approaching the Researched Assignment in First-Year Composition from Academic Librarians’ Points of View”
Barbara Gordon, Elon University, NC, “Targeted, not Generic, Library Research Instruction for First-Year Writers”
Randall Bowman, Elon University, NC, “Targeted, not Generic, Library
Research Instruction for First-Year Writers”
Research

E.02 	 Transfer and Transition in WAC/WID Instruction:
Research from the Dartmouth Seminar
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Tiane Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Speakers: Neil Baird, Western Illinois University, Macomb, “Negotiation,
Ease, and Transition to the Major”
Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University, CA, “Acculturation, Transfer,
and Higher Level Composing”
Bradley Dilger, Western Illinois University, Macomb, “Negotiation, Ease,
and Transition to the Major”
Information Technologies

E.03 	 Inventing the Infinite Text: Social Media as Gateway to
Theories of Collaboration
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2
Chair: John Pell, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Speakers: William Duffy, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC, “From
Gangster Theory to Open Source Techne: Reinventing Collaboration in
Composition Studies”
John Pell, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, “Collaboration beyond User
Interface: Web 2.0’s Inhibiting Ethos”
Chris Gerben, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Redefining the Texts:
Expanding the Spectrum of Collaboration through Discourse Analysis
of Online Writing”
Respondents: Hephzibah Roskelly, University of North Carolina at
Greensboro
Kate Ronald, Miami University, Oxford, OH

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 145

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 145

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.04 	 Writing across Borders
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Sue Henderson, East Central College, Union, MO
Speakers: Roger Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, “A
National Approach to Undergraduate Writing in the Disciplines”
Shelley DeBlasis, New Mexico State University, Carlsbad, “A Pedagogy of
Rhetorical Witnessing: Toward the Idea of Transnational Citizenship in
First-Year Writing”
Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Assessing
Advanced Composition Instruction as the Basis for Systematic Curricular Improvement: Research Findings and Their Afterlife in Shared Governance of the Curriculum”
Ayesha Boyce, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Assessing
Advanced Composition Instruction as the Basis for Systematic Curricular Improvement: Research Findings and Their Afterlife in Shared Governance of the Curriculum”
Maria Jimenez, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Assessing
Advanced Composition Instruction as the Basis for Systematic Curricular Improvement: Research Findings and Their Afterlife in Shared Governance of the Curriculum”
Community, Civic and Public

E.05 	 Feminist Engagements: Community-Based Participatory
Alternatives for the Assessment Age
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chair: Lee Nickoson, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Mary Sheridan, University of Wyoming, Laramie, “Facilitating
Student Learning via Feminist Engagements of Community”
Kristine Blair, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Sustainable Technofeminist Activism and the Mentoring of Future Faculty”
Lee Nickoson, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Beyond ‘Messy’:
Feminist Inquiry, Service Learning, and Productive Failures”
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, “Feminist Literacy
Work within Spaces of Confinement”
Liz Rohan, University of Michigan-Dearborn, “Feminist Geography: Aligning Feminist Practices with Place-Based Service Learning”
Anne Coyle, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “The People United:
Feminism and Labor Actions”
Respondent: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI

146

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 146

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Creative Writing

E.06 	 Reframing Basic Writing and Sites of Transfer
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Levek
Chair: Cynthia Bateman, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Speakers: Joyce Inman, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg,
“Basic Writing Programming: Gateways to Access Accompanied by Institutional Whispers”
Paula Patch, Elon University, NC, “Fluid Boundaries: Constructing a Meaningful Assessment of a Basic Writing Workshop”
Ellen Schendel, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, “(Re)Conceiving of the Writing Center as a Site of Transfer”
Academic Writing

E.07 	 From Assessment of ePortfolios to Assessment with
ePortfolios: Fostering Flexible, Engaged Student Writers
in and across Electronic Portfolio-Based Writing
Curricula
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Delia DeCourcy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Writing
as Design: Redefining Writing Production in a Developmental Writing
Course”
Jennifer Metsker, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Before and After:
Process as Product in Student Writing ePortfolios”
Naomi Silver, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Assessing Student
Writing with ePortfolios in a Cross-Disciplinary Writing Minor”
History

E.08 	 Gateways to Engaged Lives: An Exploration of Voice and
Agency in Turn of the Century Women’s Periodicals and
Conferences
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
Chair: Lisa Mastrangelo, The College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ
Speakers: Julianne Smith, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA, “Ellen
Wood and The Argosy: Production Authority as Women’s Editorial Work
in Late Victorian British Periodicals”
Paige Conley, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Opening New Avenues of Activism for American ‘Housewives’ and other Gentle Readers:
Vera Connolly’s Crusade for the Indian Cause”

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 147

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 147

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Erin M. Andersen, Fordham University, Bronx, NY, “Women of Ability and
Understanding: The Farmer’s Wife, The American Country Life Association, and the 1926 Farm Women’s Conference”
Lisa Mastrangelo, The College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “Women’s
Conference as Women’s Community: The Founding of the School and
College Conference on English as a Site for Rhetorical Transformation”
Institutional and Professional

E.09 	 Creating a Comprehensive, Integrated Writing
Infrastructure: Boundary Objects, Boundary Encounters,
and Cross-Disciplinary Negotiations
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
Chair: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “E-Portfolios as Boundary Objects for/in a New Writing Degree Program”
R. Mark Hall, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Facilitating Boundary Encounters in the Writing Center”
Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Legislative Mandates as Effective Boundary Objects”
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando, “Negotiating Meaning with Stakeholders through Program Assessments”
Language

E.10 	 Collaboratively Communicating via International
Gateways: Local, Global, Ideological, and Digital
Lessons for Writing Students and Their Teachers
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
Chair: Doreen Starke-Meyerring, McGill University, Montréal, Canada
Speakers: Jennifer Craig, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
“Teaching Writing in a Globally Networked Learning Environment”
Bruce Maylath, North Dakota State University, Fargo, “Gateway to a Multilingual World: Managing Complexity in Multilateral International Collaboration”
Paul Anderson, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “When the Gateway Is the
Destination: International Research about Teaching Effective Collaboration
in a Globally Networked Workplace”
Beck Bergman, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden,
“When the Gateway Is the Destination: International Research about
Teaching Effective Collaboration in a Globally Networked Workplace”
Linda Bradley, Chalmers University of Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden,
“When the Gateway Is the Destination: International Research about
Teaching Effective Collaboration in a Globally Networked Workplace”
Respondent: TyAnna Herrington, Georgia Tech, Atlanta

148

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 148

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.11 	 Cracking the Atoms of Rhetoric and Writing Studies:
Undergraduate, Graduate, and Faculty Perspectives
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
Chair: Jason Waite, Western Oregon University, Monmouth
Speakers: Joseph McCaslin, Western Oregon University, Monmouth,
“Rhetoric and Responsibility”
Matthew Schmidgall, Western Oregon University, Monmouth, “QED”
Jason Waite, Western Oregon University, Monmouth, “Into the Bardo”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.12 	 Transfer Theory that Transfers: Using Questions of
Transferability to Learn More than How to Teach Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2
Chair: Gretchen Coulter, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Speakers: Catherine McDonald, Western Washington University, Bellingham, “We Need to Go to New Places: Transitioning to a Wider Audience”
Carmen Werder, Western Washington University, Bellingham, “Misunderstandings About Writing That Transfer (too) Well”
Gretchen Coulter, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA,
“Transfer Gone Underground: Writing Transfer through Subterranean
Pathways”
History

E.13 	 Literacy Education Outside of the Curriculum
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
Chair: Modu Fofana-Kamara, Virginia Commonwealth University,
Richmond, VA
Speakers: Courtney Adams Wooten, University of North Carolina Greensboro, “Historicizing Extra-Institutional Education in Composition: The
Correspondence School at UNC, 1917–1924”
Peggy Otto, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, KY, “Homemakers’ Club Women and Tactics of Empowerment”
David Stock, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Rhetoric beyond the Margins: The Rhetorical Education of Extension Work at a Public Midwestern University, 1885–1899”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 149

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 149

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Academic Writing

E.14 	 Enter Write Here: Online Writing Placement as Portal to
Academia
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chair: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Speakers: Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, “Come and Write with Us: Using the Writing Placement Exam to
Welcome Students to Academic Writing”
Susan Carlisle, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, “Meet
Them at the Gate: Using the Placement Exam to Introduce Faculty to
Students as Writers”
Jane Dunphy, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, “Welcoming Bilingual Writers to College Writing in This Place”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.15 	 Alignment to Assessment: Closing the Loop?
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Karla Hayashi, University of Hawaii at Hilo
Speakers: Seri Luangphinith, University of Hawaii at Hilo
Caroline Naguwa, Hawaii Community College, Hilo
Shellie Naungayan, Waiakea High School, Hilo, HI
Amy Nishimura, University of Hawaii-West Oahu, Pearl City
Francine Whitehall, Hilo High School, HI
Community Civic and Public

E.16 	 Making the Best Babies: Rhetoric of Perfection
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2
Chair: Sebastian Stockman, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Speakers: Jeff Paschke-Johannes, Ball State University, Muncie, IN,
“Composing Race on a White Page: Transracial Transnational Adoptive
Parents’ Construction of Racial Identity in an Online Message Board”
Lacy Manship, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, “As Seen On TV
You(r Baby) Can Read! A Reading against the Literacy Product”

150

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 150

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.17 	 Teaching in Transition: Combating Manifestations of
Transience through Reflective Shifts in Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Megan Trexler, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Nikki Holland, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Megan Trexler, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, “Teaching in Transition: Combating Manifestations of Transience through Reflective Shifts
in Pedagogy”
Joseph Berenguel, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, “Teaching in
Transition: Combating Manifestations of Transience through Reflective
Shifts in Pedagogy”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.18 	 Rhetorical in Practices in Magic, Science, and Food
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2
Chair: Devon Hackelton, University of California Riverside
Speakers: William Burns, Suffolk County Community College, Selden,
NY, “‘Write what thou Wilt’: Aleister Crowley as Magickal Rhetorician
and Rhetoric as Magickal Ritual”
Gabriel Cutrufello, Swathmore, PA, “Rhetoric and Science in NineteenthCentury America: What the Histories of Rhetoric and American Physics
Tells Us about the Influence of Writing Instruction on Professional Identity in the Sciences”
Erin Branch, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, “Food Fights:
Reformers, Archivists, and the Struggle over America’s Culinary Identity”
Information Technologies

E.19 	 Access Denied? Universal Design, Privacy, and
Socio-economic Access
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2
Chair: Maurice C. Champagne, Morgan State University, Baltimore, MD
Speakers: Michael Neal, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Accessibility Is the New Access: The Ethics of Multimedia Composition”
Jessica Reyman, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, “Privacy and Participation: Rhetorical Gateways of the Social Web”
Melissa Helquist, Salt Lake Community College, UT, “Digital Gateways:
Redefining Literacy through Disability Studies and Universal Design”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 151

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 151

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Research

E.20 	 Race-ing Cs: Rhetoric while Black
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Michelle Bachelor Robinson, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Michelle Bachelor Robinson, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, “Learning while Black: Historicizing the Curriculum of Those Who
Cannot Treat You Right, Yet Claim to Teach you Right”
Kem Roper, University of Louisville, KY, “‘Erasing ‘Race’ En-gendering
Rhetoric”
Phillip Blackmon, Alabama State University, Montgomery, AL, “Educating
while Black: ‘The Right to Remain Silent’—Do Students at Historically
Black Colleges and Universities Really Have the ‘Right to Their Own
Language’?”
Carmen Kynard, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “Writing while Black:
Race-ing Cs against the Social Construction of (Disciplinary) Whiteness”
Kevin Browne, Syracuse University, NY, “Theorizing while Black: Composition, Rhetoric, and the Myth of Representation”
Respondent: Vershawn Young, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Writing Programs

E.21 	 Writing Centers as Ideal Sites of Knowledge Transfer and
Disciplinary Translation
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Christopher LeCluyse, Westminster College, Salt Lake City, UT
Speakers: Traci Freeman, University of Colorado at Colorado Springs, “What
Writing Centers Can Learn from Theories of Knowledge Transfer”
Pam Bromley, Pomona College, Claremont, CA, “Promoting Knowledge
Transfer through Writing Center Sessions”
Kara Northway, Kansas State University, Manhattan, “Promoting Knowledge
Transfer through Writing Center Sessions”
Eliana Schonberg, University of Denver, CO, “Promoting Knowledge
Transfer through Writing Center Sessions”
Christopher LeCluyse, Westminster College, Salt Lake City, UT, “Writing
Consultants as Disciplinary Translators”
Theory

E.22 	 Composing Lived Time in a Material Form
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Devon Fitzgerald, Millikin University, Decatur, IL, “From Cut and
Paste to Ctrl C & Ctrl V: The Materiality of Contemporary Craft Practices”

152

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 152

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Erin R. Anderson, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “An Unlikely Conversation:
Oral History as/and Composition”
Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, Baltimore “Old
Texts in New Contexts: On the Collection, Curation, and Re-Presentation of New (to Me)Dia”
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee,
FL
Community, Civic and Public

E.23 	 Reengaging Environmental Discourses as Sites for
Rhetorical Analysis, Pedagogical Practice, and
Democratic Citizenship
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2
Chair: David Clanaugh, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: David Clanaugh, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
“Rhetorics of Environmental Risk and Economic Advantage: Analyzing
Upper Great Lakes Mining Discourse”
Michael Lewis, Savannah State University, GA, “Rural Composition,
Place-Based Pedagogy, and the Special Challenges and Benefits of Rural
Writing Instruction and Writing Program Administration”
Cynthia Weber, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “Sustainability and Climate Change in the Classroom: The Politics of Teaching
Argument in the 21st Century”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.24 	 21st Century Literacies: Strategies for Learning the
Literacies We Teach
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
Chair: Madeleine Sorapure, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Madeleine Sorapure, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Infovisual Literacy: Understanding Rhetorical Tactics in Information Visualization”
Annette Vee, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Lifelogging, Learning, and the
Labor Practices of Digital Pedagogy”
Joanna Wolfe, University of Louisville, KY, “The Special Topoi of Quantitative Argument: Making Bridges between Textual and Quantitative
Analysis”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 153

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 153

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.25 	 Synchronizing Difference: Interdisciplinary Rhetoric and
Writing Courses for First-Year Students
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor
Chair: Angela Miss, Belmont Abbey College, NC
Speakers: Angela Miss, Belmont Abbey College, NC, “The Pleasures and
Perils of Creating and Implementing Interdisciplinary Writing Courses for
First-Years: Transferring Knowledge across Disciplines”
Joseph Pizza, Belmont Abbey College, NC, “The Value of Difference: An Interdisciplinary Approach to Writing Instruction”
Kevin Bezner, Belmont Abbey College, NC, “Crossing the Great Discipline
Divide: Teaching Rhetoric in an Interdisciplinary Way to Adult Learners”
Information Technologies

E.26 	 Hybridity as a Gateway to Learning: Transitioning
among Non-academic and Academic Digital Composing
Literacies
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2
Chair: Jennifer Cunningham, Stark State College, North Canton, OH
Speakers: Jennifer Cunningham, Stark State College, North Canton, OH,
“Hybrid Literacy: Examining Digital African American Language as a
Pedagogically-Relevant Non-academic Digital Literacy”
Diana Awad Scrocco, Kent State University, OH, “Hybrid Conversations:
Using Synchronous Chat in the Writing Center to Bridge Nonacademic
Digital Literacies and Academic Literacies”
Courtney Werner, Kent State University, OH, “Hybrid Conversations: Using Synchronous Chat in the Writing Center to Bridge Non-academic
Digital Literacies and Academic Literacies”
Jessica Heffner, Kent State University, OH, “Hybrid Argumentation Analysis:
Memes as the Portal from Internet to Argument”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.27 	 Online Instruction: Teachers, Assessment, and
The Writing Center
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: Kerrie Carsey, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Daniel Mahala, University of Missouri-Kansas City, “Writing
without Teachers?: Deskilled Roles for Teachers in the Dialogic Work of
Online Writing Instruction”
Jody Swilky, Drake University, Des Moines, IA, “Writing without Teachers?: Deskilled Roles for Teachers in the Dialogic Work of Online Writing Instruction”

154

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 154

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Nanelle Norcross, Western Illinois University, Moline, “Serving Contemporary Students in the Online Writing Center”
Tim Jensen, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Catalyzing Assessment, Cultivating Ownership: Online Surveys in Composition Courses”
Professional and Technical Writing

E.28 	 Medical Rhetorics and Health Literacies
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Danielle N. Roach, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: John Dinolfo, Clemson University, SC, “Discursive Practices in
Acute Patient Care and Nurse-Physician Communication”
André Buchenot, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis,
“Intersections of Digital and Health Literacies: A Reformed Approach to
Rhetorical Analysis”
Jessica Masri Eberhard, University of South Florida,Tampa, “What If Medicine Has Never Been Modern? Composing a Biomedical Pedagogy of
Rhetorical Ethics”
Theory

E.29 	 Old + Old + Old = New: Interrogating New Gateways
between Traditional Indigenous Knowledges and
Contemporary Composing Practices
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Lisa King, University of Hawai’i, Manoa, “Walking Back Out
of the University Gate Connecting to Indigenous Rhetorics of Land and
Material Practice”
Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman, “Mindful Design: An
Anishinaabe Approach to Digital Pedagogy”
Angela Haas, Illinois State University, Normal, “Decolonial Facebook
Protest Rhetorics: Re-mixing Indigenous Traditions of Alliance, Survivance, and Justice in Digital and Visual Spaces”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.30 	 Making Reading Visible
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Speakers: Patricia Donahue, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, “Tracing the
Moves: How Students Read”
Mariolina Salvatori, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Tracing the Moves: How
Students Read”
Gary Weissman, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Reading Oneself as An Other:
A Writing Assignment”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 155

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 155

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham, “Reading in
the Dark: Seeing Reading when Both the Reader and Writer Are in Transition”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.31 	 Ways Not Gates: Toward a Democratic Continuum
of Composition Practices Twenty-five Years after the
English Coalition Conference
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Chair: Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, NY
Speakers: Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, NY, “Feeled Notes: Unthinking the Grad Seminar Term Paper, Democratically”
Nicole Galante, Stony Brook University, NY, “(Re)Composing the Continuum: Writing Gateways to Democratic Publics”
David Hyman, Lehman College, Bronx, NY, “Strange Bedfellows: Writing
the Gap between ELA and English”
Information Technologies

E.32 	 Multimodal Gateways, Written Destinations: Beyond
New Media as Heuristic and Writing as Product
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Elizabeth Homan, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Re-visioning and
Re-purposing Academic Writing for Hypertext in the First-Year College
Composition Classroom”
Crystal VanKooten, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Building on a
Rhetorical Foundation through DIY (Do-It-Yourself) Digital Video in
the Comp Classroom”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E. 33 	 Writing Secondary/Postsecondary Transitions: Toward a
National Model for Reframing the Common Core through
the Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
Speakers: Timothy Berrigan, University of Maine, Orono, “Reframing Approaches and Values in High School Writing Pedagogy Using the Common Core State Standards and the Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing”

156

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 156

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Ryan Roderick, University of Maine, Orono, “Capitalizing on Summer Literacy Practices in the Transition Period between High School and College”
Rachel Pyles, University of Maine, Orono, “Using the Framework for Success in Postsecondary Writing as a Tool to Inform First-Year Composition
Pedagogy and Ensure College-Readiness in Secondary Schools”
Patsy Dunton, State of Maine Department of Education, Augusta, “Aligning the Framework and the Core: A Partnership for Collaboration and
Change”
Respondent: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

E.34 	 Re/Visioning Student Research as Gateway: From
Classroom to Public Engagement
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
Chair: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Speakers: Libby Martin, University of California, Irvine, “In(ter)vention:
Multi-Modal Parody and Freire’s Pedagogy of Laughter”
Lance Langdon, University of California, Irvine, “Written from Experience: Service-Learning, Research, and Community Intervention”
Elaina Taylor, University of California, Irvine, “Queering Research for Academic and Public Audiences”
Abraham Romney, University of California, Irvine, “Food Matters: Engaging Students through Research Writing about Food”
Respondent: Susan Jarratt, University of California, Irvine, “Research Revisioned?”

E.35 	 Open Working Meeting of the Committee on Assessment
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 157

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 157

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30–7:30 p.m.
TSIG.1	 Retired Faculty in Rhetoric/Composition/Writing
Studies
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A,
Second Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Carol Lipson, Emerita, Syracuse University, NY
Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA

TSIG.2	 Writing about Writing: FYC as Introduction to Writing
Studies
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B,
Second Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Barbara Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN

TSIG.3	 Transnational Composition
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C,
Second Floor
	

Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY

TSIG.4	 The Role of Reading in Composition Studies
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F,
Second Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Ellen Carillo, University of Connecticut, Storrs
Mike Bunn, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne

TSIG.5	 SIG: Language, Linguistics, and Writing
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G,
Second Floor
	

Chair: Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, NY

158

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 158

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.6	 Community Literacy, Service-Learning, and Public
Rhetoric SIG
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H,
Second Floor
	

Chair: Allen Brizee, Loyola University-Maryland, Baltimore

TSIG.7	 Women’s Network: Gender and Professional Status in
the Field
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon 1,
Lobby Level
	

Chair: Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg

TSIG.8	 AEPL Celebrates Authors! Panel and Reception for
Recent Books by Bruce Novak and Jeff Wilhelms;
Wendy Ryden and Ian Marshall
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2,
Lobby Level
	
	

Co-Chairs: Wendy Ryden, Long Island University C.W. Post, Brookville
Bruce Novak, Indiana University Pennsylvania

TSIG.9	 Engicomm: Communication in the Engineering
Curriculum
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3,
Lobby Level
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Robert Irish, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Mya Poe, Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Brookline, MA

TSIG.10	 Klal Rhetorica: Jewish Rhetoric and Composition SIG
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4,
Lobby Level
	

Chair: Janice Fernheimer, University of Kentucky, Lexington

TSIG.11	 Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy SIG
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5,
Lobby Level
	
	

Co-Chairs: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne
Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 159

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 159

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.12	 National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6,
Lobby Level
	
	

Co-Chairs: Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College, Danielson,
CT

TSIG.13	 Council on Basic Writing SIG
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7,
Lobby Level
	
	

Co-Chairs: J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College-CUNY,
Long Island City, NY
Hannah Ashley, West Chester University, PA

TSIG.14	 Kenneth Burke Society SIG at CCCC
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
	

Chair: Ethan Sproat, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

TSIG.15	 Association of Undergraduate Rhetoric and Writing
Studies Majors SIG
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Helen Foster, University of Texas, El Paso
Tom Moriarty, Salisbury University, MD
Tim Peeples, Elon University, NC

TSIG.16	 Rhetoric, Sport, and Student-Athletes
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Neil Baird, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Cassie Wright, University of Arizona, Tucson

TSIG.17	 Second Language Writing at the Crossroads:
Language Policy, Globalization, and the Future
of Higher Education
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro

160

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 160

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Thursday, 6:00–10:00 p.m.

TSIG.18	 Disability Studies SIG
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Margaret Price, Spelman College, Atlanta, GA
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado-Denver

TSIG.19	 Prison Writing and Teaching
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Barbara Roswell, Goucher College, Baltimore, MD
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY

Thursday Evening Events
Scholars for the Dream Reception
Renaissance Hotel, Statler Room, Lobby Level
6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.
AA
Renaissance Hotel, Westmoreland Room, Lobby Level
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
ALANON
Renaissance Hotel, Kingsbury Room, Lobby Level
8:00 p.m. –10:00 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 161

a1-161-4Cs-2012.indd 161

2/1/12 12:22 PM

Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Friday, March 23
REGISTRATION 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
EXHIBITS 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
TYCA Editorial Board Meeting
Renaissance Hotel, Parkview Room, Mezzanine Level
7:30 a.m.-8:30 a.m.
Nominating Committee
Renaissance Hotel, Hawthorne Room, 21st Floor
8:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m.

162

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 162

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F Sessions: 8:00–9:15 a.m.
Featured Session

Celebrating 25 Years of the Research Network Forum:
A Continuing Gateway for Research
Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom G, Second Floor
In answer to the need for research support in the field
of composition, Charles Bazerman gathered a group of
like-minded scholars in 1986 and established the Research Network Forum. The group met for the first time
in 1987. Twenty-five years later, the RNF is a thriving
pre-conference forum whose network of mentorship assists scholars at every level of their careers from beginning graduate student to the most established professors
and independent scholars in the field. As Chris Anson
points out in his call for proposals to the 2012 CCCC,
“The history of composition reflects a spirit of continuous exploration.” As an integral supporting structure of
that exploration, the Research Network Forum continues to be both a leader and a guide through the gateway
of cutting edge research in writing. Research in most
fields is a quiet process where the scholar works generally in isolation with his/her materials and perhaps a few
mentors and like-minded peers. However, with so few
composition/rhetoric graduate programs in the 1980s
and early 1990s, many faculty and graduate students
were limited in their research communities and longed
to share their works-in-progress with others. Now that

Ollie O. Oviedo

Risa P. Gorelick

Charles
Bazerman

Victor Vitanza

Gina M. Merys

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 163

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 163

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

there are a solid number of graduate programs, RNF also draws faculty who may
be the sole compositionist/rhetorician on their campus to join a community of
scholars. What started as a small gathering of scholars who shared their latest
research has turned into a large celebration of scholars—both distinguished and
novice—who share their latest projects with others whom they wouldn’t have
easy access to outside of RNF to complete theses, dissertations, articles, conference papers, and books. During this session, panel members, comprised of past
and current RNF chairs, will discuss the history of composition research, current
trends and issues, and the future of research and research mentorship in the field.
Chair:
Janice R. Walker
Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers:
Charles Bazerman
University of California, Santa Barbara, “The Changing Ecological Niche of the
RNF: Research at the C’s, Then and Now”
Victor Vitanza
Clemson University, “MANATAURing [sic]. . . minotaur/mentoring”
Ollie O. Oviedo
Eastern New Mexico University, Portales, “Research Network Forum: Mentoring and Showcasing Book, Print, and E-journal Editing and Publishing for 25
Years”
Risa P. Gorelick
College of Saint Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ, “(Wo)men’s Ways of RNF Knowing: 25 Years of Nurturing Research Mentorships”
Gina M. Merys
St. Louis University, “A Future Built on Shared Vision: The RNF’s Mission as
Foundation for Growth”

164

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 164

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Featured Session

Vernacular Value: Assessing the Code-Switching
Paradigm for Current Writing Instruction
Renaissance, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
This session examines current perspectives on vernacular language practices, critically assessing the relevance
of vernacular literacies and code switching to writing
instruction in multilingual and multidialectal settings.
Sites for writing instruction have always been multilingual and multidialectal, but there has rarely if ever been
substantial agreement on how best to meet language proliferation with pedagogical strategies. A much-discussed
approach encourages students to write in ways consisJanet Bean
tent with their oral vernacular patterns, yet questions
arise about this approach’s utility and relevance given
students’ own goals and given criticisms of the category of “language.” We hope
to model a conversation about the stakes, benefits, challenges, and criticisms of
vernacular-oriented writing teaching, especially as students draw on more and
more sources for their “own” languages.
Chair:
Jay Jordan
University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers:
Janet Bean
University of Akron, OH, “Finding Resonance: African-American Students’ Use
of Vernacular in Academic Writing”
Keith Gilyard
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Vernacular Speech into
Writing: A Critical Perspective”

Keith Gilyard

Jay Jordan

Peter Elbow

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 165

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 165

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Jay Jordan
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Vernacular Codes and Questions about
‘Language’”
Respondent:
Peter Elbow
Professor Emeritus, University of Massachusetts at Amherst

Institutional and Professional

F.01 	 “Stretch” through the Transnational: Gateway Rhetorics
in First-Year Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Ian Barnard, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Steven Wexler, California State University, Northridge, “The Limits to ‘Cost-Effective’ Comp”
Nicole Warwick, California State University, Northridge, “Stretch Curriculum, Hermeneutics, and Transnational Theory: Exploring Disciplinary and Departmental Change”
Mandy Macklin, California State University, Northridge, “‘Stretch’ through
the Lens of a First-Year T.A.”
Maria Turnmeyer, California State University, Northridge, “Decentering the
Politics of Knowledge in Asian American Studies”
Creative Writing

F.02 	 Turning Intersections into Gateways: A Practical Primer
on “Creative Composing”
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 2

Chair: Benjamin Bogart, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Jennifer Klein, Missouri State University, Springfield, “Sophists,
Terpsis, and Pedagogy”
Anna Robb, Missouri State University, Springfield, “The Poem in Context:
The Place of Composition Studies in Creative Writing”
Nicole Thom-Arens, Missouri State University, Springfield, “It’s Not All Sunshine and Rainbows: A New Expressivism for the Composition Classroom”
Benjamin Bogart, University of Louisville, KY, “You Think I Just Write to
See Myself Talk?: Adapting the Workshop Model’s Successes for Use in
the Composition Class”

166

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 166

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

History

F.03 	 Rhetorical Gateways for Writing Classes
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Linda Ferreira-Buckley, The University of Texas, Austin
Speakers: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, “The Undergraduate Research Triangle”
Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, Corvallis, “Historical Rhetoric
for Pre-Service and In-Service Teachers”
Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY, “Historicizing Social Justice”
Lynee Lewis Gaillet, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Historicizing Primary Investigation”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.04 	 Ways of Knowing that Shape Writers and Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Heidi Huse, University of Tennessee, Martin
Speakers: Sandie Friedman, George Washington University, Washington,
DC, “Revisiting Risky Writing: Public and Private Modes in a Community of Therapists”
Angela Kohnen, University of Missouri, St. Louis, “Writing in Third Space:
Interviews with Science News Writers”
Karla Saari Kitalong, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
“Learning from Children’s Drawings: Gatekeepers of the Future Representing Power and Agency”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

F.05 	 Gateways or Grateways? Rethinking, Re-envisioning,
Remediating Composition’s Materials and Practices
(a New Media Spin)
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor

Chair: Justin Hodgson, The University of Texas at Austin
Speakers: Justin Hodgson, The University of Texas at Austin, “Chora/gated: Sifting Sorting Folding Fragments”
Anthony Collamati, Clemson University, SC, “Camera Inversions: Writing
with Outtakes and Cheating the Gate”
Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Glorying in the
Unfinished G(r)ateways of Audio-Visual Writing”
Doreen Piano, The University of New Orleans, LA, “Dredging Composition’s
Waste: Reclaiming Print Culture as a Trash Aesthetic for the Writing
Classroom”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 167

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 167

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Language

F.06 	 Reader Reception and the Construction of Identity
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Todd E. Rohman, St. Louis Community College, MO
Speakers: Linda Rubel, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, “Self-Disclosure and Deaf Writers: A Gateway or a Gate?”
Rose Marie Toscano, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, “Self-Disclosure and Deaf Writers: A Gateway or a Gate?”
Harris Bras, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Little Understood
Global Gateways to Composition for International Students”
Andrea Olinger, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “The Reception of Multiple Englishes in Scholarly Journals’ Proofreading Policies”
Professional and Technical Writing

F.07 	 Public and Eco-Rhetorics: State Parks, Coal, and Big Oil
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: George Diamond, Moravian College, Bethlehem, PA
Speakers: Crystal Wright, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Cooperative
Rhetoric: The Wyoming Outdoor Council and Big Oil”
Elizabeth L. Jones, University of Illinois, Springfield, “The Rhetoric of Disaster and Rebuilding in a Missouri State Park”
Brad Benz, University of Denver, CO, “The Gateway to Clean Coal”
Writing Programs

F.08 	 Rhetorical Routes to Revision: Developing a University
Writing Program Amidst General Education Reform
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: James Beitler, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI
Speakers: Jennifer Campbell, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI, “Surveying the Writing Terrain”
John Madritch, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI, “From Framed to Reframing: Writing Program Revision and General Education Reform”
James Beitler, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI, “Two Roads Diverged: Employing E-Portfolios to Promote Disciplinary and Transdisciplinary Learning”
Nancy Nester, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI, “From the Podium to
the Pavement: The Praxis of Civic Engagement and Social Responsibility”

168

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 168

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Information Technologies

F.09 	 Authors, Fans, and Power: Exploring the Potential of
Appropriation
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Speakers: Mary Karcher, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “New Space,
New Power: What Happens when Fans Fight Back”
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, MD, “Barthes, Zombies, and Harry
Potter: The Author Who Wouldn’t Die”
Emily Bunner, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, “Wiki It: Videogames and Collaborative Composition”
Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, “Monsters,
Mash-ups, and Marginalia: When Worlds (and Authors) Collide”
Valerie Haas, Baker College at Allen Park, MI, “Reinventing the Classics:
Fanfiction and the Power of ‘What If?’”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.10 	 Intercultural Gateways and Comparative Critical
Reflection: Effects of International Exchange on
Learning and Identity Development
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Amy Zenger, American University of Beirut, Lebanon
Speakers: William DeGenaro, The University of Michigan, Dearborn,
“Trans-Cultural Inquiry: Listening to Student Voices”
Dacia Dressen-Hammouda, Blaise Pascal University, Clermont-Ferrand, Cedex, “Intercultural Exchange as a Gateway to Critical Self-Awareness”
Margaret Willard-Traub, The University of Michigan, Dearborn, “Reflecting
on the Trans-Cultural ‘I’”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

F.11 	 Turned Away at the Gate: Reconsidering the Relationships
of Composition and Literature
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 1
Chair: Mary Beth Pennington, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
Speakers: Paul Heilker, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA, “Reconsidering Composition and Literature: Then and Now”
Mary Beth Pennington, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “Reconsidering
Literature as Stylistic Model and Rhetorical Artifact”
Kristen Pond, Baylor University, Waco, TX, “Reconsidering Literature as
Empathetic Model for Civic Discourse”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 169

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 169

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Community, Civic and Public

F.12 	 Rainbow Arches: Gateways or Barriers in LGBTQ Stories
and Identities?
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Matthew B. Cox, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Matthew B. Cox, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Queerly Professionalized? Negotiating LGBTQ and Professional Identity”
Casey Miles, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Butch Rhetoric: A
Queer Masculinity in Rhetoric and Composition”
Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, College Station, “The Quiet Country
Closet: Reconstructing Discourses for Closeted Rural Experiences”
Alexandra Cavallaro, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Coming
Out Literacies: Rhetoric, Identity, and Community in LGBTQ Coming
Out Narratives”
Travis Webster, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “A Theory of Queer
Rhetorical Counter Narratives”
Respondent: Trixie G. Smith, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Theory

F.13 	 From Page to Screen: Composition and Media
Convergence
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Sid Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Sid Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville, “Visual Writing”
Joe Hardin, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith, “From Page to Screen to
Audio: Re-presenting the Signs of Sound”
Sean Morey, Clemson University, SC, “From Screen to Screen: Teaching
With/Writing in Video”
Research

F.14 	 Designing Dialogic Online Composition Classes:
Gateways into Academic Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: Jennifer Stone, University of Alaska, Anchorage
Speakers: Jennifer Stone, University of Alaska, Anchorage, “Creating Dialogic Online Composition Classes: Gateways into Academic Writing”
Jackie Cason, University of Alaska, Anchorage, “Where Is the Teacher in
This Class?: Inhabiting Multiple Online Spaces to Facilitate and Direct
Dialogic Discussion”
Trish Jenkins, University of Alaska, Anchorage, “Student Perceptions of
Online Discussions”

170

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 170

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.15 	 Digital Coaching for Measurable Outcomes in Basic
Writing: Preliminary Results from the Global Skills for
College Completion Project
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Jason Evans, Prairie State College, Chicago Heights, IL
Speakers: Rosemary Arca, Foothill College, Los Altos Hills, CA
Robin Ozz, Phoenix College, AZ
Reid Sunahara, Kapiolani Community College, Honolulu, HI
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

F.17 	 Working the Edges of the Writing Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Dennis Lynch, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “What Do
We Need to Know about Emotion to Teach Argumentative Writing?”
Stephen Jukuri, Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, “Basic Writing,
Dangerous Emotions: Strategies for Displacing Anxiety with Appreciation, Joy, Humor, and Affection in Basic Writing Classrooms”
Nicholas Learned, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Investigating Humor and Argument in the Writing Classroom”
Community, Civic and Public

F.18 	 Sponsoring Literacy across Institutions, Community, and
Generations
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Nancy Reddy, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Speakers: Betsy Bowen, Fairfield University, CT, “Sponsors of Literacy
for GED-seekers: Findings from a Community-Based Literacy Center”
Lauren Marshall Bowen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
“Writing a Life: Cross-Generational Collaboration in Community-Based
Research and Writing”
Laura Weinert, New York University, NY, “Writing in Community: An Advanced College Writing Course”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 171

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 171

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.19 	 Niizh Manidoowag Gawonisgv: Two-Spirit Talk
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Rose Gubele, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant,
“The Rhetoric of Love and War: Cherokee Ghigau (War Women/Beloved Women)”
Qwo-Li Driskill, Texas A&M University, College Station, “Asegi Archives:
Two-Spirit People, Cultural Memory, and Rhetorical Alliances”
Joshua Hudson, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, “Embracing
All of Our Community: The Value of Niizh Manidoowag as the Application of Traditional and Sovereign Knowledges”
Institutional and Professional

F.20 	 Audience and Agency: Transitioning Student-Teacher
Dialogue through Pedagogies of Inclusion
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Beth Buyserie, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Anna Plemons, Washington State University, Pullman, “Inviting
Students and Advisors into Pedagogies of Inclusion”
Beth Buyserie, Washington State University, Pullman, “Developing Pedagogies of Inclusion”
Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, Pullman, “Assessing
Pedagogies of Inclusion”
Writing Programs

F.21 	 Cross-cultural Dialogues in Classrooms and Writing
Centers
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: David R. Richie, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
Speakers: Heather Finn, Kingsborough Community College, Brooklyn,
NY, “Valuing Immigrants’ Histories: Encouraging Participation in the
Adult ESL Literacy Classroom”
Polina Chemishanova, University of North Carolina Pembroke, “Strangers
in the Writing Center: Non-Native English Speakers as Tutors and Perceptions of “Otherness”
Kathleen Shine Cain, Merrimack College, North Andover, MA, “Lessons
from a Cross-Cultural Writing Center Dialogue”

172

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 172

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Theory

F.22 	 Affect, Embodiment, and the Tensions of “Unruly”
Rhetorical Writing Pedagogy
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Kate Navickas, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Nicole Gonzales Howell, Syracuse University, NY, “Authority
in the Composition Classroom: Negotiating Social Location and Social
Justice Pedagogies”
Kate Navickas, Syracuse University, NY, “Moderation and Rhetorical Restraint: Checking Middle-Class Values for Academic Writing”
Timothy R. Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY, “A Settler White Male
Tries to Answer the Call for Radical Rhetorical Alliance”
Anna Hensley, Syracuse University, NY, “‘Only Visible in Certain Lights’:
Desiring Queerness in the Writing Classroom”
Academic Writing

F.23 	 Wikipedia, Research Writing, and the People Formerly
Known as the Audience: Knowledge Making, Audience,
and Motivation in the Read/Write Web First-Year Composition Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Michael Kuhne, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN
Speakers: Michael Kuhne, Minneapolis Community and Technical College,
MN
Gill Creel, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN
Dominic Saucedo, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN
Information Technologies

F.24 	 Technologies of Assessment: Common Outcomes,
Distinct Campuses, and Multi-Institution Online
Assessment
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Norbert Elliot, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark
Speakers: K.J. Peters, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA
Lynda Haas, University of California, Irvine
Ali Meghdadi, University of California, Irvine
Gary Bennett, Santa Ana College, Santa Ana, CA
Shelby Schaefer, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA
Respondent: Diane Kelly-Riley, Washington State University, Pullman

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 173

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 173

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

F.25 	 “Walking through the Gates”: Agency Developed in Place
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Barb Blakely, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Barb Blakely, Iowa State University, Ames
Abhijit Rao, Iowa State University, Ames
Sarah Pike, Iowa State University, Ames

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.26 	 Disrupting Composition’s Exclusions
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Lobby Level

Chair: Tereza Joy Kramer, St. Mary’s College of California, Moraga
Speakers: Bret Keeling, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Transmissible Gifts: The ’(Un])Doing’ of Knowledge”
Tonya Stremlau, Gallaudet University, Washington, DC, “A Gateway into
the Deaf World: Creative Writing from the Deaf Community”
Maggie Werner, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva, NY, “Defining the ‘Not I’ - Rhetorics of Alterity”
Academic Writing

F.27 	 L2 Writing: Pedagogy and Academic Socialization
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Elizabeth Allen, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Hui Yang, California State University, San Bernardino, “An
Analysis of the Conclusion Part in Chinese College L2 Argumentation
Writing: The Didactical Strain of ‘X should/ must?’ Pattern”
Shari Wolke, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Gateway from
Novice to Professional: Transitions in Academic Writing for L2 Graduate Student Writers”
Soo Hyon Kim, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Gateway from
Novice to Professional: Transitions in Academic Writing for L2 Graduate Student Writers”

174

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 174

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Community, Civic and Public

F.28 	 Teaching and Writing in Prison: History, Rationale and
Research
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Phyllis Hasting, Saginaw Valley State University, MI
Speakers: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,
NY, “History, Context, and Connections of Prison Teaching: Looking
Back, Looking Forward”
Stacy Bell McQuaid, Oxford College of Emory University, Atlanta, GA,
“Inside the Prison Gates: Who We Teach, Why We Do It, and Why They
Come”
Barbara Roswell, Goucher College, Baltimore, MD, “The ‘Idea’ of the Prison Writing Workshop”
Information Technologies

F.29 	 Visual Rhetorics: Delivery of Blogs, Videos, and Zooms
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Heather Rodgers, St. Charles Community College, MO
Speakers: Ehren Pflugfelder, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “The
Logics of Logistics: Delivery without UPS”
Ryan Omizo, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Facing Online Video:
Toward a Rhetorical Physiognomy”
Christine Masters Jach, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Gateways
of Perception: Zooming Visual Rhetoric and Composition”
Research

F.30 	 First Books and Second Books: SWR Authors Talk about
Developing Book-Length Projects
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Joseph Harris, Duke University, Durham, NC
Speakers: Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, CA, “New Books,
New Fields: A Scholar’s Problem of Transfer”
Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University, NJ, “‘Washed Out of My Brain’:
Unpredictability, Synthesis, and Control in a First Book”
Jason Palmeri, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Remixing the Dissertation”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 175

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 175

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Theory

F.31 	 Rereading the Fathers: Performatively, Queerly, and
Ecologically
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Julie Nelson, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Alice Gillam, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Reconsidering the Ethics of Rereading”
Julie Nelson, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Aristotle’s Fear: A Performative Feminist Rereading”
Avery Edenfield, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Effeminacy and Morality in Quintilian’s Institutio Oratoria”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.32 	 Conclusions from a Qualitative Study of Dual Credit
Writers at the Community College: What Happens when
High School Students Write in a College Course?
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Speakers: Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA,
“Dual Credit Students Reflect on Their Writing Development”
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA, “The Writing
of Dual-Credit Students”
Ron Weisberger, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA, “Are DualCredit Writers Developmentally Ready for College-Level Work?”
Academic Writing

F.33 	 Accountability Culture and Critical Interpretation of Error
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Sarah Stanley, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, “Error in Critical
Grammar Pedagogy”
Mary Scott, Institute of Education, London, England, “From ‘Error’ to Multimodal Semiosis: Reading Student Writing as a Chronotopic Gateway”

176

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 176

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

F.36 	 Perspectives on the Student-Teacher Relationship
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Megan M. Bolinder, Northwest Arkansas Community College, Bentonville
Speakers: Molly Haas, Franklin Pierce University, Rindge, NH, “Teaching
while Grading: Technology and Personal Attention”
Lucretia B. Yaghjian, Episcopal Divinity School, Cambridge, MA, “The
Writing Teacher/Tutor and the Spiritual Director: Expanded Perspectives
on Monitoring and Mentoring Writers”
Alexander Ocasio, St. Louis University, “Problematizing the StudentTeacher Conference: Gauging Its Usefulness Abroad”

F.37 	 Open Working Meeting of the Newcomer’s Orientation
Committee
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, Bloomfield, NJ
Academic Writing

F.38 	 Almost There: What Works in the Dissertation Writing
Institute?
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Paul Barron, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Student Perceptions on the Role of Accountability in the DWI”
Louis Cicciarelli, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Reported Changes
in Dissertation Writing Behavior: An Overview of Findings”
Ben Gunsberg, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Attributions of Potency in the Dissertation Writing Institute”
Annie Hesp, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Gaining a Tool Chest: Unintended
Consequences of Participating in the DWI”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 177

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 177

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

G Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
Featured Speaker

Adam Banks
Technologizing Funk/Funkin Technology:
Stevie Wonder’s Talking Book as Gateway to a
Black Digital Rhetoric
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom 4, Lobby Level
Chair: Rhea Lathan, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Adam Banks: Cerebral and silly, outgoing and a
homebody, a little melancholy and a lot of joy, more
slow jam than HipHop, but that, and some blues and
some jazz too. A committed teacher, in love and hate
with writing and enjoying the struggle. Vernacular
and grounded like Langston and Jook Joints, but
academic and idealistic too. Convinced that Donny
Hathaway is the most compelling artist of the entire
soul era, and that we still don’t give Patrice Rushen
and Curtis Mayfield enough love.
Adam Banks
Born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio, and educated in the Cleveland Public Schools (when they
were public and not “municipal”), Adam Banks received his BA in English from
Cleveland State University and his MA and PhD from Penn State University.
Formerly an Associate Professor of Writing and Rhetoric at Syracuse University, Banks served as the 2010 Langston Hughes Visiting Professor of English at
the University of Kansas and spent last semester as a Visiting Scholar in Comparative Media Studies at MIT. A member of the Writing, Rhetoric, and Digital
Media faculty at the University of Kentucky, his teaching and research interests
include African American rhetoric, digital media, social and cultural issues in
technology, community literacies and engagement, and composition theory and
pedagogy.
Banks is the author of Race, Rhetoric, and Technology: Searching for Higher
Ground, a book challenging teachers and scholars in writing and technology
fields to explore the depths of Black rhetorical traditions more thoroughly and
calling African Americans, from the academy to the street, and to make technology issues a central site of struggles for a more just society. This debut book was
awarded the 2007 Computers and Composition Distinguished Book Award. His
second book, Digital Griots: African American Rhetoric in a Multimedia Age,
was published in 2011 with the Studies in Writing and Rhetoric series by Southern Illinois University Press.
178

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 178

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Featured Session

Intercollegiate Athletics as Gateway to Literacy
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
The pathway through which many students enter academe is intercollegiate athletics, but often studentathletes arrive with the burden of stereotypes already
in place. The inspiration for this session is a cohort of
high-profile football players who achieved academic
success at large public AAU institution. Townsend’s
study, “The Literate Lives of Athletes: How a Division
I Championship Football Program Graduated 100% of
Its Senior Players,” looks at the factors that contributed
Mark Emmert
to the twenty-six athletes earning degrees while simultaneously competing at the highest level of collegiate
play. NCAA President Mark Emmert addresses why
the organization believes student-athletes are “students
first and athletes second.” He will explain academic reform measures the NCAA has adopted, present the latest data on student-athletes’ graduation rates, and comment on the effectiveness of the new APR (academic
progress rate). Alden, who chairs the NCAA’s Division
I Board of Directors, will highlight his experiences in
guiding an athletic program toward academic success.
Mike Alden
Panelists will engage with the audience about the intersection of athletics and academics. The panel aims
to enlarge the conversation about student-athletes’ academic performance and
offer new perspectives for faculty who teach student-athletes.
Chair:
Martha Townsend
University of Missouri, Columbia
Speaker:
Mark Emmert
President, National Collegiate Athletic Association
Respondent:
Mike Alden
Athletic Director, University of Missouri, Columbia

Martha Townsend

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 179

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 179

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Creative Writing

G.01 	 Creative Multimedia: 3D Poetry, Hypertext Narratives, and
Amateur Auteurs
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1

Chair: Denis G. Jerz, Seton Hill University, Greensburg, PA
Speakers: Leah Schweitzer, High Point University, NC, “Narrative Gateways: Rethinking the Writing Process for Digital Space”
Steven Krause, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, “Amateur Auteurs:
The Problems of Teaching and Assessing Multimedia in Writing Classes”
Brandon Whiting, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Poetry: Now in 3D!”
History

G.02 	 Writing History in the Digital Age: New Gateways for
Feminist Historiography
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Cheryl Glenn, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park, “Feminist
Historiography and the Digita, Humanities: Methodological Opportunities and Challenges in the Digital Archive”
Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, “Recent History of Rhetoric: Approaching Computer-Mediated Communication as a Feminist
Historiographer”
Jean Bessette, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Shaping the ‘Vast, Queer Past’:
Rhetoric and Technology in the Gateway between Archive and Public”
Language

G.03 	 Language in Action: Power, Neutrality, and Translation
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Logan Bearden, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Jeffrey Maxson, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, “Translating
as if One’s Life/Language/Culture Depended on It”
Joy Karega, University of Louisville, KY, “Localized Language Practice,
Translingual Literacy, and Black Radical Students, 1961–1975”
Bethany Davila, New Mexico Highlands University, Las Vegas, “The Peculiar Position of ‘Standard’ English: Acknowledged Power and Perceived
Neutrality”

180

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 180

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

G.04 	 Promises and Perils of Social Action and Professional
Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Gerald Jackson, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Speakers: Christopher Alexander, University of Georgia, Athens, “Transitions: Social Apprenticeship, Antecedent Genres, and Public Relations in
the Professional Writing Classroom”
Kyle Mattson, University of Central Arkansas, Conway, “Public Policy and
Social Action White Papers: A Promising Genre for Technical Communicators?”
Natalie Stillman-Webb, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Project-Based
Learning, Privacy, and the HITECH Act of 2009”
Institutional and Professional

G.05 	 What Is Our Professionalism For? The Role of
Composition and Rhetoric Scholars in the Public
Practice of K–12 Literacy Educators
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: James Webber, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Speakers: James Webber, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “The Rhetoric of Literacy Instruction: Interviewing Parents of 8th-Grade Language
Arts Students”
Maja Wilson, University of Maine, Orono, “The Rhetoric of Literacy Instruction: Engaging Parents”
Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, “What College Writing Is ‘Really’ Like: Engaging Parents and Students”
Respondent: Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.06 	 The Library, New Media and Composition Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
Chair: Susan Garza, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Speakers: Susan Garza, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Chelsea Perez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Michelle Villarreal, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 181

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 181

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary

G.07 	 Gamers, Scholars, Guildies: Gaming as a Gateway to
Scholarly Identity
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Jan Rune Holmevik, Clemson University, Clemson, SC
Speakers: Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College, Lawrenceville, GA
Wendi Sierra, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC
Richard Parent, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT
Cynthia Haynes, Clemson University, Clemson, SC
Joshua Abboud, Clemson University, Clemson, SC
Douglas Eyman, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Research

G.08 	 Argument and the Transition from High School to College:
Learning from a Large-scale Analysis of Student Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
Chair: Naomi Silver, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Moises D. Perales Escudero, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Zak Lancaster, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Laura Aull, Wake Forest University, Winston Salem, NC
Community, Civic and Public

G.09 	 Rhetorical Ethnography and the Study of Publics, Places,
and Citizen Action
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Candice Rai, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Candice Rai, University of Washington, Seattle, “Networked Democracy, Rhetorical Force, and the Role of Online Media in Community
Organizing”
Nadya Pittendrigh, University of Illinois at Chicago, “‘They Make the Roofs
and Walls to Ring’: Artists’ Rhetoric in Grassroots Prison Reform”
Caroline Gottschalk Druschke, University of Rhode Island, Wakefield,
“Conserving a Common-Place: Rhetorics of Agricultural Stewardship”

182

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 182

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

G.10 	 Placing “Choice”: Agency, Remediation, and Whiteness
in Directed Self-Placement at California State University,
Fresno
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Asao B. Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Miriam Fernandez, California State University, Fresno, “DSP
and Remediation”
Tyler Richmond, California State University, Fresno, “Agency, Assessment,
and the Institution: DSP at California State University, Fresno”
Mathew Gomes, California State University, Fresno, “DSP and Whiteness”
Information Technologies

G.11 	 Classrooms, Compositions, and the Writing Center:
Extending the Gateway of Digital Technologies to Reach
and Engage Student Writers
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Lisa Litterio, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY
Speakers: Debbie Rowe, York College-CUNY, Jamaica, NY, “The Balancing Act of a Hybrid Course”
Lisa Litterio, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, “Towards a Gateway of Critical Citizenship: Integrating Multimodal Compositions in Students’ Contemporary Digital Spaces”
Barbara Lewis, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, “Mediating
Technologies: Using Digital Tools to Expand the Writing Center’s ‘Gateway’ for Student Writers”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.12 	 The Visual and the Spatial in Multiliteracies: Gateways to
Rhetorical Potential
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Jennifer Ware, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Robin Snead, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Meaning
Potential: Interface as Visual Metaphor”
Jennifer Ware, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Easing the
Assessment Angst: Storyboarding Activities for the Composition
Classroom”
Dana Gierdowski, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “It’s Not Just
about the Chairs: The Power Dynamics of Classroom Space”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 183

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 183

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Theory

G.13 	 Difference, Identity, and Habits of Mind
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Michael Charlton, Missouri Western State University, St. Joseph
Speakers: Robert Danberg, Binghamton University, NY, “Opening the
Half-Opened Gate: A Theory of Habits of Mind for Writing Course Design”
Pamela Chisum, Washington State University, Pullman, “Becoming Visible in Invisible Space: How the Cyborg Trickster Is (Re)inventing NDN
Identity”
Kaitlin Marks-Dubbs, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “(Im)
precisely One: Un-Flattening Theorizations of Sexual Normativity in
Composition Studies”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

G.14 	 Show Me Your Work: A Cross-Disciplinary Assessment of
Undergraduate Mathematical Research Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2
Chair: Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, SC
Speakers: Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, SC
Meg Scott-Copses, College of Charleston, SC
Amy Mecklenburg-Faenger, College of Charleston, SC
Patrick Bahls, University of North Carolina-Asheville
History

G.15 	 Writing Instruction, Literacy by Subscription, and
Methodological Diversity
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Dani Weber, La Grande, OR
Speakers: Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Denton, “The Normals: Normal Schools and Composition History”
Alicia Brazeau, University of Louisville, KY, “Literacy by Subscription:
Turn-of-the-Century Composition and The Ladies’ Home Journal”
Nathan Shepley, University of Houston, TX, “‘Feminist’ as Tantamount to
‘Nontraditional’? A Case for Methodological Diversity in Local Histories of Composition”

184

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 184

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic and Public

G.16 	 Politics and Audience: LGBT Contexts
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Linda Smith, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Keith Walters, Portland State University, OR, “Understanding
Audience in the ‘It Gets Better’ Videos”
Megan Condis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “No Homosexuals in Star Wars? The Politics of Play in the Online Community
Surrounding Star Wars: The Old Republic”
Sarah Sloane, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Emerging Exigences and Practices of LGBTQIA Writing Groups”
Stephanie L. Becker, Colorado State University, Ft. Collins, “Emerging
Exigences and Practices of LGBTQIA Writing Groups”
Academic Writing

G.17 	 Awareness: Disciplinary Differences and Critical Thinking
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Karen D. Culver, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
Speakers: Patricia Dyer, Widener University, Chester, PA, “Gateway to
Critical Thinking in Other Disciplines: A Study of Perceptions of FirstYear Composition Students”
Tara Friedman, Widener University, Chester, PA, “Gateway to Critical Thinking in Other Disciplines: A Study of Perceptions of First-Year Composition Students”
Amelia Herb, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Graduate Student
Writing Groups: Gateways to Interdisciplinary Dialogue and Disciplinary Awareness”
Matthew Wiles, University of Louisville, KY, “Prompting Discussion: Using
Written Assignment Instructions to Teach Disciplinary Difference”
Information Technologies

G.18 	 Ludic Pedagogy: Theory, Practice, Exegesis
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Amanda Phillips, University of California-Santa Barbara
Speakers: Carlos Hernandez, The Borough of Manhattan Community College /City University of New York, NY, “Gameplay Should Not Mean,
But Be: Leveraging Procedural Rhetoric in the Composition Classroom”
Grace Hagood, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Performance and
Procedure in Games: The Medium Is Still the Message”
Amanda Phillips, University of California-Santa Barbara, “Mind What You
Mean: Game Studies Discourse and Rhetorics of Anti-Oppression”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 185

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 185

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.19 	 Gateways to Individuality: Embodied Pedagogies,
Teacher Anecdotes, and the Rhetorical I
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Lobby Level

Chair: Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Speakers: Shauna Wight, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “Embodied Literacy Pedagogies: Antidotes to Audit”
Wendy VanDellon, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “‘Let Me Tell
You a Story’: Repositioning the Teaching Anecdote as a Way to Discuss
Outcomes”
Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “‘The Personal Is
Always Plural’: Addressing the Rhetorical ‘I’ in Composition”
Theory

G.20 	 Encountering the Visual: Rhetorical Stances of
Skepticism, Cynicism, and Iconoclasm
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Lobby Level

Chair: Christopher Basgier, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Christopher Basgier, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Encountering ‘Entertainmentaries’ through the Rhetoric of Popular Skepticism”
Laura Sparks, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Citizen Cynics: Encountering Abu Ghraib, Again”
Lavinia Hirsu, Indiana University, Bloomington, “Burn or Love Thy Image:
Teaching Productive Rhetorical Engagements with Images”
Information Technologies

G.21 	 Assessing Digital Assessment Tools: Automated Essay
Evaluations of ePortfolios
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Lobby Level

Chair: Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Keith Gibson, Utah State University, Logan, “Online Writing Instruction and Automated Essay Evaluators”
Brian Fotinakes, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “The Computer at the
Gates: What Automated Scoring Software Can and Cannot Do”
Ben Wetherbee, University of Louisville, KY, “Assessing Digital Assessment: How to Confront the Current-Traditional Assumptions of E-Portfolio Systems”

186

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 186

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

G.22 	 Being(s) in Transition: Rhetorical Gestures in Medical,
Transnational, and Prison Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Lobby Level

Chair: Paul Prior, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Hannah Bellwoar, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
“Subtle Connections: Reading and Writing the Body through Touch and
Gesture in Massage Therapy”
Yu-Kyung Kang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Ambivalent
Cross-Cultural Gestures: A Case Study of South Korean and KoreanAmerican Undergraduate Students”
Cory Holding, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Gestures From
the Inside”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.23 	 The Gateway or the Gatekeeper?: Tensions Between
Teachers’ Identity and Teaching Identity at an HBCU
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level

Chair: Eric Detweiler, University of Texas, Austin
Speakers: Eric Detweiler, University of Texas, Austin, “I Am Not My Ethos:
The Use of Rhetorical Irony in Teaching and Constructing Identity at an
HBCU”
Leah Soule, Tennessee State University, Nashville, “Encouraging Student
Voice while Discovering My Own”
Nafissa Thompson-Spires, Tennessee State University, Nashville, “Toward
a Black Mosaic: Teaching Double Consciousness and Single Voice in the
HBCU Composition Class”
Writing Programs

G.24 	 Unseen Gateways in First-Year Writing: FLCs, ‘General
Writing,’ and TA Authority
America’s Conventin Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Leigh Kolb, East Central College, Union, MO
Speakers: Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ,
“‘General Writing’ as the Foundation of a Counter-Curriculum”
Lee Bauknight, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Arendt, Authority, and TA Transitions”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 187

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 187

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic and Public

G.25 	 Beyond the Classroom Walls: Redefining Literacy and
Basic Writing through Community Engagement
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level

Chair: Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University/Brookdale Community
College, Madison, NJ
Speakers: Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University/Brookdale Community College, Madison, NJ, “Learning from Digital Literacy Narratives:
Teaching Basic Writing in a ‘New Key’”
Rasheda Young, Brookdale Community College, Lincroft, NJ, “Understanding
Student Writers through Digital Literacy Narratives”
Regina Clemens Fox, Oklahoma City University, OK, “‘Beyond Basic’: Basic
Writers Understanding Literacy through Research of Local Literacy Histories”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

G.26 	 Embodied Composition: Sports, Music, and Dance
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Lobby Level

Chair: Megan Flautt, San Francisco State University, CA
Speakers: Kathryn Baillargeon, University of California, Santa Barbara,
“Hearing Writing, Composing History, Learning Music: Multidisciplinary Concepts in the First-Year Composition Classroom”
Shreelina Ghosh, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Digitizing Traditions: Making Space for Hyper-Real in the Pedagogy of Indian Classical Odissi Dance”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.27 	 Alternative Performative Pedagogies
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level

Chair: Kathryn Trauth Taylor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Justin Rademaekers, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “The
Performance of Discipline in the Composition Classroom”
Kathryn Trauth Taylor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Bodies and
Blogs: A Post-Process Pedagogy at the Digital Turn”
Heather Trahan, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Performing Silence:
A Pedagogical Model”

188

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 188

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

G.28 	 Responding to Writing Across the Curriculum
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Linda Barro, East Central College, Union, MO
Speakers: Laura Wilder, University at Albany, State University of New
York, “‘This Is How We Do Things’: The Discipline in Literature Professors’ Evaluation Practices”
Cary Moskovitz, Duke University, Durham, NC, “Professional Readers for
STEM Student Writers”
Martha D. Patton, University of Missouri, Columbia, “Engineering Effective Comments: Finding the Margin of Safety”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

G.29 	 Teachers at the Center: National Writing Project
Philosophy Informing University Writing Programs
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level

Chair: Steve Fox, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis
Speakers: Steve Fox, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis,
“Learning Composition Theory the NWP Way”
Kirsten Jamsen, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Minneapolis, “Bringing National Writing Project Philosophy to the Center—Writing Center,
That Is!”
Lizbeth Bryant, Purdue University-Calumet, Hammond, IN, “Practicing What
I Preach: NWP Philosophy in an Undergraduate English Ed Course”
Nancy Singer, University of Missouri-St. Louis, “Inquiry at the Center”
Robert Brooke, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Integrating National
Writing Project Philosophy in a Land-Grant University Writing Program”
Writing Programs

G.30 	 A Two-Way Street: Community Programming and
First-Year Writing
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Lobby Level

Chair: Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Speakers: Mary Kovaleski Byrnes, Emerson College, Boston, MA, “Creative Writing as Gateway”
Sarah Ehrich, Emerson College, Boston, MA, “The Graduate Program as
Gateway”
Kristina Kopic, Emerson College, Boston, MA, “Civic Engagement as
Gateway”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 189

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 189

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

G.32 	 The Arc of Transfer: Gateway from Novice to Expert
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: E. Shelley Reid, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: M. Elizabeth Sargent, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada,
“Anchoring Transfer in Reflective Practice from Day One in WritingAbout-Writing FYC”
E. Shelley Reid, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, “Teach It Forward:
A ‘Solving Writing Problems’ Reorientation for Composition Curricula”
Kara Taczak, University of Denver, CO, “The Transfer of Transfer: How a
Teaching-for-Transfer Curriculum Transfers from One FYC Context to
Another”
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ, “Transfer of
Content in Context: A Comparison of Transfer Studies at Two Universities”
Theory

G.33 	 Teaching/Theorizing Language as a Local Practice
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: John Trimbur, Emerson College, Boston, MA, “Grassroots Literacy and the World System”
Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Understanding the
Work of Teaching (Your) Class”
Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY, “Recognition, Agency, and the
Copy in Literacy Practice: (Re)structuring Tradition
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY, “Recognition, Agency, and the
Copy in Literacy Practice: (Re)structuring Tradition”
Writing Programs

G.34 	 Classical Rhetoric for the Modern Writing Center
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Speakers: Jon Olson, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
“Rhetoric and Dialectic in the Writing Center: Two Lanterns”
Sarah Summers, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Did
Somebody Order a Website? Delivery as a Gateway to Tutoring New
Media”
Respondent: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

190

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 190

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

G.35 	 Open Working Meeting of the Labor Caucus
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Seth Kahn, West Chester University, PA

G.36 	 What IS College Readiness and How Can We Help OUR
Students Get There?
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Linda Ferreira-Buckley, University of Texas at Austin
Speakers: Linda Ferreira-Buckley, University of Texas at Austin, “What IS
College Readiness? Working Against the One-Size-Fits-All Movement”
Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC, “Using the
Writing Studio to Help Students Become College Ready”
Cynthia Miecznikowski, University of North Carolina-Pembroke, “What
IS College Readiness? Using Reading to Teach Students How to Learn”
Brian Bremen, University of Texas at Austin, “Great Expectations: The
Summer ‘College Readiness’ Writing Course”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 191

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 191

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

H Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Featured Session

Silence, Listening, Identity:
Bearing Witness to Female Bodies
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Silence and listening are now established as arts that
compose rhetors and rhetorical events. In this session,
four rhetorical scholars examine the power of silence
and listening to compose the female body, to bear witness to it as it ages, teaches, administers, and engages
the visual turn in film. Thus, this session will address
issues of the aging feminist body, the raced  teacher’s
female body and performance, gendered administrative
styles, and images of the female gaze and geek in contemporary film.

Cheryl Glenn

Co-Chairs:
Win Horner
University of Missouri, Columbia
Kris Ratcliffe
Marquette University, Milwaukee
Speakers:
Cheryl Glenn
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “The Aging Female Body
as Academic”

Shirley Logan

Kris Ratcliffe

Joyce Irene
Middleton

192

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 192

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Shirley Logan
University of Maryland, College Park, “The Black Female Body as Pedagogue”
Kris Ratcliffe
Marquette University, Milwaukee, “The White Female Body as Administrator”
Joyce Irene Middleton
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, “The Female Body as Geek (in Film)”

Featured International Session

WAC/WID and Writing Research:
New Ideas that Bridge Continent
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
To the international community, WAC and WID often
appear to have had their origins and development in the
United States. But a WAC/WID focus is now very much
part of the work of many universities internationally,
and whether inspired by North American programs and
research or not, they tend to have a very different focus-and often a challenging and useful one for U.S. institutions. The three international speakers on this panel share
insights gained through practice and research on writing
development as a transformative agent at both local and
national levels in their countries, where each has been
an influential voice. Focusing on WID as an institutional
strategy, they describe recent research in which they
have been involved on evaluating WID approaches and
support for WID initiatives. The fourth speaker from the
U.S. describes trends in writing research he sees in the
work of the newly convened International Society for
the Advancement of Writing Research (ISAWR). This
panel, organized by David Russell and the CCCC Committee on the Globalization of Postsecondary Writing
and Research, is intended to advance our understanding
of the institutional situations, programmatic structures,
and orientations to writing education in different regions
of the world.

Paula Carlino

No
Photo
Available

Blanca Yaneth
González Pinzón

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 193

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 193

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Sally Mitchell

Paul M. Rogers

Terry Myers
Zawacki

Chair:
Paula Gillespie
Florida International University, Miami, FL
Speakers:
Paula Carlino
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina, “Teaching Writing in Higher Education:
Who Takes on the Task in Argentina?”
Blanca Yaneth González Pinzón
Universidad Sergio Arboleda, Bogota, Columbia, “Learning in First Year General Reading and Writing Courses and Its Transfer to the Disciplines”
Sally Mitchell
Queen Mary, University of London, UK, “Now We Are Ten: Where Have We
Gotten To? Thinking Writing at QMUL”
Paul M. Rogers
George Mason University, Fairfax, “Evolving the Field: Integration and Differentiation in International Writing Research”
Respondent: Terry Myers Zawacki, George Mason University, Fairfax

194

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 194

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Creative Writing

H.01 	 In Search of Wonder
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Jason Nemec, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Christina LaVecchia, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Resuscitating Wonder in Rhetoric Studies: A Site for Invention”
Les Kay, University of Cincinnati, OH, “‘Something Strange Is Creeping
across Me’: Wonder as Praxis/Pedagogy in Ashbery and Haraway”
Jason Nemec, University of Cincinnati, OH, “‘Cooking’ the Writing Process: Moving from the Kitchen to the Composition Classroom”
History

H.02 	 Mapping Entry Points of Nineteenth-Century Rhetorical
Activism
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level

Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Lisa Shaver, Baylor University, Waco, TX, “Walks of Usefulness:
Women’s Antebellum Home Visits as Emboldening Civic Engagement”
Reva Sias, Syracuse University, NY, “Rhetoric of Beauty and Shame . . .”
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX, “Sacred Rhetorical Education at Andover Theological Seminary . . .”
Jill Lamberton, Wabash College, Crawfordsville, IN, “Institutional History
as a Gateway to Collective Memory?: The Case of Collaboration in the
Founding of the ‘Harvard Annex’”
Research

H.03 	 Global Gateways for Undergraduate Researchers:
Comparative Rhetoric across Cultures
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Co-Chairs: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Gregory Giberson, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Enrique Paz, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Coming to an
Understanding: Writing Centers and Multi-cultural Views of Plagiarism”
Samantha Hyrns, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “The Rhetoric of Islam in
America: Opinions, Perspectives, and the Role of Media”
Ryan Blank, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Media Coverage of Natural
Disasters: A Cross-Cultural Rhetorical Analysis”
Jessica Tess, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, “Attitudes on Academic
Writing: Perspectives in Japan”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 195

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 195

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

H.04 	 Professional Writing in Transition: Into the World of Work
and Back Again
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Dauvan Mulally, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI,
“Between Two Worlds: Using Digital Diaries to Help Writing Majors
Transition from the Educational Sphere to the World of Work” Natalia
Kovalyova, University of North Texas at Dallas, “‘At work, we don’t
write like that’: Challenges of Teaching Business Writing to Mature Students”
Stephen Neaderhiser, Kent State University, North Canton, OH, “Mixing
Business and Personal: Teaching Professional Writing with an Eye to
Students’ Personal Lives”
Language

H.05 	 English Language Learning: Error, Transfer, and Teaching
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Geoffrey Middlebrook, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: Chen Yue, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, “From
Duck-stuffer to Effective Scaffold: A Transition of Chinese Teacher’s
Role in L2 Writing”
Jeanette Brink, University of Groningen, The Netherlands, “‘I will LEARN
you correct English’: Errors advanced Dutch Learners Still Make”
Shishi Zhang, California State University, San Bernardino, “Is Chinese
Writing Off-Track?”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.06 	 New Conversations about Teachers as Writing
Practitioners
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Heather Blain, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Heather Blain, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
“Practitioners First, Pedagogues Second: Composition, Creative Writing, and the Master Class Model”
Rebecca Woodard, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Unpacking Teachers as Writers Advocacy”
Sonia Kline, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Teachers as
Writers and Digital Composers”

196

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 196

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

H.07 	 A Gateway to Teaching in the Two-Year College: TYCA’s
Revised Guidelines for Academic Preparation
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College,
WA
Speakers: Rochelle Rodrigo, Mesa Community College, AZ, “Why Do We
Need The Guidelines for Academic Preparation of English Faculty at
TYCs?”
Susan Miller-Cochran, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Who
Prepares English Faculty at TYCs?”
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College, WA,
“How Do We Hire and Continually Develop English Faculty at TYCs?”
Writing Programs

H.08 	 The Consortium for the Study of Writing Survey as a
Gateway to Writing Assessment, Faculty Development,
and Program Building: A Comparative Perspective
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Charles Paine, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Jessica Hausmann, Georgian Court University, Lakewood, NJ,
“NSSE Results as Gateway to Expanding and Assessing the Writing Program at a Small Private University”
Sarah Skripsky, Westmont College, Santa Barbara, CA, “NSSE Results as
Mapping for Mission”
Michael Cripps, University of New England, Biddeford, ME, “Context as
Key: NSSE Writing Consortium Data in Two Institutions”
Matthew Schultz, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY, “Crossing the Assessment Threshold: From Survey to Practice”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 197

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 197

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

H.09 	 Expansion of Acceleration in Basic Writing:
The Replication Program
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Robert Miller, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Robert Miller, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD,
“The Replication Program in Context”
Michelle Zollars, Patrick Henry Community College, Martinsville, VA, “Patrick Henry Community College’s Involvement in the Replication Process”
Heidi Johnsen, LaGuardia Community College, Long Island City, NY, “The
Replication Project at LaGuardia Community College and Challenges
Faced in Scaling Up a Program at a Large Urban College”
Linda De La Ysla, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD, “The
Community College of Baltimore County’s Pedagogy Project, the
Wiki, and Faculty Development”
Community, Civic and Public

H.10 	 Publics, Publishing, and the Challenges of Circulation
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: John Trimbur, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Speakers: Paula Mathieu, Boston College, MA, “Publication Does Not Equal
Circulation: The Challenge of Finding Readers”
Diana George, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Riding the Rails/Following the
Harvest: Voices of Dissent and Tactics for Circulation”
Tom Fox, California State University-Chico, “From the Street to the Governor: Political Consequences of Circulation”
Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA, “Mapping Transnational Mobility: 500 Alternative Stories Cross the U.S.-Colombian Border”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.11 	 Putting Ethos and Resistance to Work: Community
Applications
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Casie Moreland, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Dearborn, MI,
“Banal Resistance as the Gateway to Justice in Basic Writing”
Kyllikki Brock, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Ethos Enacted:
Communal Credibility”
d’Andra White, Texas A&M University-Commerce, “Rhetoric and Resistance: (In) Between Democracy”

198

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 198

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.12 	 Opening Gateways through Comparative Rhetoric:
Moving between and across Disciplinary and Cultural
Boundaries
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Dominic Ashby, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Carol Lipson, Syracuse University, NY, “Cultural Rhetoric and the
Case of Akhenaten”
LuMing Mao, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Seeing Opposition in a New
Light: Yin-Yang Rhetoric in Ancient China and Beyond”
Bo Wang, California State University, Fresno, “Writing in an ‘In-Between’
Space: The Rhetoric of Chinese Modernity”
Dominic Ashby, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Between Outside and Inside: Anime and Manga as Gateways to Japanese Rhetoric”
Theory

H.13 	 Latour and Rhetoric: Kairos, Contingency, Techne
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: Dennis Lynch, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Scot Barnett, Clemson University, SC, “Reassembling Rhetoric
and Latour”
Marilyn Cooper, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “Bruno Latour Teaches Writing”
Carl Herndl, University of South Florida, Tampa, “From the Object of Rhetoric to the Rhetoric of Objects: Latour’s Vibrant Materialism”
Respondent: Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Institutional and Professional

H.14 	 The Comp/Rhet Gateway: Preparing MA Students for Life
after the Program
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: John Alberti, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
Speakers: John Alberti, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
Jonathan Cullick, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
Jen Cellio, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
Christopher Wilkey, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
John Silvestro, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights
Jennifer Martin, Northern Kentucky University, Highland Heights

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 199

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 199

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.15 	 Digital Intertextuality and Cultural Production: Using
Critical Theories to Produce and Question Film and
Video in the Composition Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University-San Marcos
Speakers: Iris D. Ruiz, University of California, Merced, “Intercultural Communication Using YouTube: Original, Hybrid or Diluted?”
Aja Y. Martinez, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Stories We Are Told and
Foundations for Prejudice: Creating a Critical Race Argument with
Film to Explore American Ethnocentric Education”
Alexandra Hidalgo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Teaching Digital
Film Production as Community Engagement: Documenting Local Histories”
Respondent: Peter J. Fadde, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Community, Civic and Public

H.16 	 Working the Public University: Expectations, Discourses,
and Practice(s) of Teaching Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2
Chair: Matthew Williams, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
Speakers: Matthew Williams, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
Patrick Bruch, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
Thomas Reynolds, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.17 	 Supporting Writing Transfer at Critical Moments:
Common Core, Sophomore WAC, and Underprepared
Writers
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Rick Fisher, University of Wyoming, Laramie
Speakers: Rick Fisher, University of Wyoming, Laramie, “Exploring the
Effect of Common Core State Standards on FYC Skill Transfer”
Joyce Stewart, University of Wyoming, Laramie, “Task Language and
Transfer: Building FYC Bridges to Sophomore Writing Courses”
April Heaney, University of Wyoming, Laramie, “Frameworks for Improving Writing and Reading Transfer for Underprepared Writers in FYC”

200

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 200

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

History

H.18 	 Literacy, Genre, and Agency: Renaissance Handbooks to
College Application Essays
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Shereen Inayatulla, York College, CUNY, Jamaica, NY
Speakers: Matthew Boedy, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Why
the College Application Essay Matters to Composition”
Mary Hedengren, University of Texas at Austin, “‘Every beggar’s brat
(may) learn from the book ( . . . ) so that the beggar’s brat becomes a
bishop’: Renaissance Handbooks as Gatekeepers of Social and Moral
Betterment”
Katherine Fredlund, Bowling Green State University, OH, “The Woman’s
Era Club and Public Education: The First Female African American
Newspaper”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.19 	 Beyond the Writing Center: Strategic Alliances with
Alumni, Adult Education, and Libraries
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair:
Speakers: Katie Stahlnecker, Metropolitan Community College, Omaha,
NE, “Partnering for Change: One Writing Center’s Role in Obama’s
‘American Graduation Initiative’”
Theresa Westbrock, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, “National
Problem, Local Solution: How Libraries, Writing Programs, and Writing
Centers Can Collaborate to Help Students Engage with Information”
Matt Moberly, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, “National Problem, Local Solution: How Libraries, Writing Programs, and Writing
Centers Can Collaborate to Help Students Engage with Information”
Kathryn Evans, Bridgewater State University, MA, “Peer Tutor Alumni
‘Give Back’: Leveraging Alumni as Resources via Social Networking”
Information Technologies

H.20 	 Digital Transitions: What We Leave Behind when We Let
Digital Technologies Write Us
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Drew Kopp, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ
Speakers: Drew Kopp, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, “Moving through
the Looking Glass: Reconfiguring the Institutional Mission through
Multimodal Design”
Amanda Haruch, University of Idaho, Moscow
Zack Warzecka, University of Texas at El Paso, “Lost in Translation: Digital Videography and Persuasive Horizons”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 201

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 201

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

H.21 	 Performance and Voice in the Acts of Rhetoric and Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Anushiya Ramaswamy, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Speakers: Karen Carter, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Alternative
Gateways: Public Sphere Theory, Theater and the Reconstitution of an
Ethnic Image”
Robert Yagelski, State University of New York at Albany, “Writing, WellBeing, and Change: A Theory of Writing and Instruction for a Threatened World”
Lydia McDermott, Ohio University, Athens, “Echo, the Ventriloquist: A
Rhetoric of Throwing Voices”
Community, Civic and Public

H.22 	 Re-reading Appalachia: Literacies of Resistance
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks
Speakers: Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, “Rereading the Natives: Resisting the ‘Agnosis’ Diagnosis”
Krista Bryson, Ohio State University, Columbus, “Picturing Literacy in the
Appalachian Coalfields”
Todd Snyder, Siena College, Loudonvillen NY, “‘College Is Not a Fairytale’: Appalachian Students Re-read First-Year Writing”
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne,
“Scholarly Resistance: Appalachians Re-shaping the Academy”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.23 	 “Pedagogies of Digital Affect”
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Christian Smith, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Christian Smith, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Attention and Affect: Distributed Cognition in Networked Writing Environments”
Mark Pepper, Utah Valley University, Orem, “Affectively Investing in Template Culture: Making Shortcuts Matter Differently for Future Design
Exploration”
Jonathan Maricle, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Affect and Rewiring Argument in the Classroom

202

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 202

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic and Public

H.24 	 Facilitative, a More Civil and Civic Discourse
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas at Permian Basin, Odessa
Speakers: William Carroll, Abilene Christian University, TX, “Hey, Are
You Talking to Me? Fictions of Audience in the American Rhetorical
Situation”
Mark Williams, University of Louisville, KY, “Toward a More Civil Discourse”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.25 	 “. . . Because Writing Acts as a Gatekeeper”: Leveraging
the Common Core State Standards to Invigorate Writing
Instruction in K–12 Settings
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Anna Varley, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI
Speakers: Anna Varley, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI, “Invigorating Writing Instruction through Teacher Preparation”
Kristen Dembroski, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI, “Invigorating Adolescent Writing Instruction”
Heather Pauly, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI, “Invigorating
Writing Instruction through a High School Writing Center”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.26 	 A Million Student-Veterans and Counting: How Veterans
Are Transforming College Writing Instruction
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Corrine Hinton, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Corrine Hinton, St. Louis University, MO, “Men ‘wanting to go
places’: Veteran Evolution in Higher Education”
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Moving With and Moving On: The ‘Service Difference’ in the 50–50 Writing Classrooms”
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Student-Veterans,
Colliding Values, and Responsible Writing Program Administration”
Respondent: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 203

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 203

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.27 	 Designing Engaging Writing Assignments with Video
Games and Fanfiction
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Michelle Szetela, Utah Valley University, West Jordan
Speakers: Mark Mullen, The George Washington University, Washington,
DC, “Getting Back to Basics by Going Back to the Future”
Daphne Daugherty, Missouri State University, Springfield, “The Unexplored Gate: Charting Compositional Energies of Fanfiction Writing”
Sarah Wynn, The University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, “The
Unexplored Gate: Charting Compositional Energies of Fanfiction Writing”
Peter Brooks, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, “Deconstructing the
Borders of Digital and Analog Identity: Understanding the Relationship
between Architects, Rule Sets, and Player Characters”
Writing Programs

H.28 	 At the Threshold of Transformation: Two-Year College
Writing Programs in Transition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level

Chair: Joseph Janangelo, Loyola University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: Jeffrey Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ, “Building a
Two-Year College Writing Program: Year One”
Malkiel Choseed, Onondaga Community College, Syracuse, NY, “A Two-Year
College Writing Program at the Threshold: Year Three”
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA, “An
Analysis of a Two-Year College Writing Program in Midstream: Year
Five”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.29 	 Mediating Gateways: Rhetorical Action and Advocacy
across Communities with Student Athletes
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: Cassie Wright, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Cassie Wright, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Building or
Bridging Gateways with Student Athletes: A Case Study”
Michael Rifenburg, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “(Dis)placing Collegiate Football Players: Challenges of Incorporating Student-Athletes
in the Writing Classroom”
Sarah Harris, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Committing to an Athlete’s Total Success: The Writing Center as Social Space”

204

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 204

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

H.30 	 Engaging K–12 Educators in the Teaching of College
Composition: Three Avenues for Outreach, Connection,
and Collaboration
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level

Chair: Christine Tulley, The University of Findlay, OH
Speakers: Christine Denecker, The University of Findlay, OH, “From Safeguard to Sharing: Professional Development for Dual Enrollment Composition Instructors”
Christine Tulley, The University of Findlay, OH, “Preparing Former High
School English Teachers for First-Year Writing Instruction: Institutional
Challenges and Benefits”
Jen Almjeld, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, “Mind the Gap: Building Multimodal Composition Theory through Multi-Institutional Collaboration”
Theory

H.31 	 Rhetorics of Social Consciousness, Economics,
and Labor
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Amy L. Weaver, University of California, Santa Cruz
Speakers: Liberty Kohn, Winona State University, MN, “An Ecological
Gateway to Socio-Economic Pedagogy: Locating the Rhetorics of National Debt, Fiscal Responsibility, and Market-Driven Agency in Public
Discourse”
Benjamin Fink, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Teaching Like a
Flat-Taxer: Intellectual Labor, Cultural Capital, and the Academic Essay”
Robert (Robin) Brown, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Teaching
Like a Flat-Taxer: Intellectual Labor, Cultural Capital, and the Academic
Essay”
Brian Cope, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Examining in the Liminal between Consciousness and the Digital World: Eco-Heuristics as
Gateway for a Literacy of Sustainability”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 205

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 205

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.32 	 Generational Gates and Gateways: Examining the Divides
and Discovering Bridges
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Charles Cox, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Cynthia Bair Van Dam, American University, Washington, DC,
“Is There a Bridge Big Enough?: Trying to Connect with the ‘Efficiency
Generation’”
Lacey Wootton, American University, Washington, DC, “Closing the Faculty Generation Gap: Multi-Generational Teaching Styles and Their Effects on Students—and on Other Teachers”
Alison Thomas, American University, Washington, DC, “Closing the Faculty Generation Gap: Multi-Generational Teaching Styles and Their Effects on Students—and on Other Teachers”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

H.34 	 Twenty-First Century Gateways for the Classroom, the
Community, and the Public: Complicating the Research
Paper, the ‘Service’ Experience, and the Audience
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: T. R. Johnson, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA
Speakers: T. R. Johnson, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, “Four
Thresholds of Student Development”
Ashlie Sponenberg, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, “Digital Gateways for Student Development in Research and Information Literacy”
Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY, “Social Justice
Pedagogy as a Site for Ethical Compromise”

H.35 	 Working Meeting of the Task Forces on Dual
Credit/Concurrent Enrollment
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington

206

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 206

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Co-Sponsored by the Council of
Writing Program Administrators
Richard Lanham

“That Stuff Hasn’t Changed Much in 2500 years, Has It?”:
Rhetorical Terms in an Attention Economy
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor

Chair: Casie Fedukovich, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Richard A. Lanham was educated at the Sidwell
Friends School in Washington, DC, and at Yale University, from which he holds the A.B., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees in English. He began his teaching career at Dartmouth College and from 1965 to 1994
taught in the English Department at UCLA, where
he is now Professor Emeritus. He has been an NEH
Richard A. Lanham
Senior Fellow, a Senior Fellow in the Society for the
Humanities at Cornell University, a Guggenheim
Foundation Fellow, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor at the Institute for the Humanities at the University of Michigan, the 1994
International Scholar at the George Eastman House in Rochester, N.Y., and, in
1995, the Andrew W. Mellon Professor at Tulane University. In 2001-02, as a
Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, he lectured and met with students and faculty
in two-day visits to nine U.S. college campuses.
Lanham is the author of The Motives of Eloquence, Literacy and the Survival
of Humanism, Analyzing Prose, The Electronic Word: Democracy, Technology,
and the Arts and other books of literary criticism and prose stylistics. His newest
book, The Economics of Attention, published by the University of Chicago Press
in 2006, has won the Media Ecology Association’s Erving Goffman Award for
2007.
Prof. Lanham’s teaching career found its center in Chaucer, Shakespeare, and
literary rhetoric from classical Greece to the present day. He has also throughout
his career maintained a serious interest in student writing. In pursuit of this interest, he founded the UCLA Writing Programs, and directed it from 1979 to 1986.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012 207

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 207

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

He has also written two composition textbooks, Revising Prose and Revising
Business Prose, each with an accompanying video. It was while working in the
UCLA Writing Programs that he first became interested in electronic text, the
latest chapter in the history of Western rhetoric. In recent years he has lectured
widely on multimedia expression.
In 2010 he delivered the keynote address at the Council of Independent Colleges conference on the use of the internet in undergraduate research. Also in
2010 he spoke at the Rochester Institute of Technology symposium on “The
Future of Reading.”
Since 1971, Prof. Lanham has also acted as a literary consultant and expert
witness in copyright disputes in the television and motion picture business. He
has worked on cases involving King Kong, Jaws, Shampoo, Earthquake, Star
Wars, Superman, and many other films. His television credits in this line of endeavor include The A-Team and Falcon Crest. Most recently he has acted as
literary expert in a case involving a PETA television campaign.
Prof. Lanham is the president of Rhetorica, Inc., a Los Angeles consulting
and editorial services company.
Featured Session

Race, Writing Assessment, and Failure: Confronting
Language Attitudes, Testing Legacies, and Technologies
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
How does failure shape students’ understanding of literacy practices and their experiences of testing? Is it necessary to construct failure in writing assessments? This
panel examines the ways that failure is conceptualized,
enacted, and experienced in writing assessments and
asks what innovations might help us more meaningfully
understand the place of failure in assessment.
Fourth generation approaches to assessment (Guba
& Lincoln, 1989; Broad, 2003; Broad et al., 2009) acZandra L. Jordan
knowledge the multiple, socially constructed realities
that teachers, students, and others bring to assessments.
In considering how students’ and teachers’ perspectives shape assessment and
learning (Huot, 2002; Neal, 2010), fourth generation evaluation invites us to
consider what we mean when we construct failure in our assessments. As welldocumented by Marilyn Sternglass, Mike Rose, and others, failure in conventional assessments has had deleterious consequences for students of color, second language writers, and working class students. Our goal is to confront the

208

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 208

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Mya Poe

Asao B. Inoue

Min-Zhan Lu

label of failure, questioning its meaning, usefulness, and consequences. In doing
so, we believe that we can change assessment practices to better promote learning in writing classrooms today.
Chair:
Norbert Elliot
New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark
Speakers:
Zandra L. Jordan
Spelman College, Atlanta, “‘Most Teachers Take Off for Using African American English’: Perceptions of Fairness and Failure in Classroom Writing Assessment at an HBCU”
Mya Poe
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Listening to Assessments
Past: How Students’ Experiences of Failure and Success Shape Writing Assessment”
Asao B. Inoue
California State University, Fresno, “The Construction of Failure in Writing Assessment Technologies: Considering The Effects of Grading Contracts on Various Racial Formations”
Respondent:
Min-Zhan Lu
University of Louisville, KY

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 209

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 209

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.01 	

Creative Writing

Creative Writing and Lived-Experience
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Second Floor
Chair: Caroline Dadas, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Julie Nichols, Utah Valley University, Orem, “The Freshman
Writer as Word Artist: Opening Gateways between and through the
FYC/Creative Writing Border Country”
Linda Shelton, Utah Valley University, Orem, “The Freshman Writer as
Word Artist: Opening Gateways between and through the FYC/Creative
Writing Border Country”
LaToya Faulk, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “The Living Tongues
of Me, You, and Them: Language, Hybrid-Identity, Race and Spoken
Word Poetry as a Literacy Apparatus in the Composition Classroom”
Hilary Selznick, Illinois State University, Normal, “Pink-Ribbon Syndrome:
The Dangerous Optimism in Illness Narratives of Recovery and Cure”

I.02 	

History

Visual Gatekeepers: Nineteenth-Century Photography
and the Visual Rhetoric of Exclusion
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Scott Gage, Colorado State University-Pueblo
Speakers: Scott Gage, Colorado State University-Pueblo, “Corporeal Invitations: Photography and Pathos in Nineteenth-Century Constructions of
Race and Gender”
Leigh Gruwell, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “‘The Public Circulation of
Women’: Nineteenth-Century Photographic Pornography”
Ersula Ore, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Visualizing the Citizen:
Lynching Photography and the Construction of Civic Personhood”
Respondent: Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University, Tallahassee

I.03 	

Language

Gateways and Gatekeepers to Literacy
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: John Grant, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Kay Siebler, Missouri Western State University, St. Joseph,
“Gateways to Literacy: Service Learning, Literacy, Open Enrollment,
and Title I”
Beverly Baker, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, “The Assessment of Writing for Future Teachers: An Application of Critical Language Testing”
Rachel Reed, Auburn University, AL, “From Culture to the Classroom: A
Study of L2 Extracurricular Writing”

210

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 210

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.04 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Mixing and Revising: Writers and Texts
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Twila Papay, Rollins College, Winter Park, FL
Speakers: Lykourgos Vasileiou, LaGuardia Community College-City University of New York, Astoria “Breaking the Skill Level Barrier: Using
Web 2.0 Environments to Facilitate Student Interactions across Skill
Levels”
Erin Wecker, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “‘Me Life No Rest’:
Trauma and Revision among Refugee Writers”
Jason Markins, State University of New York Tompkins Cortland, Dryden,
“Traditionally Excluded: Non-Traditional Adult Learners in the Multimodal Classroom”

I.05 	

Research

Resisting, Reflecting, Re-Envisioning: Writing Research
across Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: James Austin, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA
Speakers: Heather Urbanski, Central Connecticut State University, New
Britain, “A View from the Other Side: Student-Writer Role Conflict and
Pedagogical Memory”
Jan Roser, Boise State University, ID, “Re-envisioning Flower and Hayes
Rhetorical Problem for Teaching Context: A Case Study of Rhetorical
Adaptability and Transfer”
Lennie Irvin, San Antonio College, TX, “Rethinking Reflection: A Grounded Theory of Rhetorical Reflection in Freshman Composition”

I.06 	

Institutional and Professional

From the Other Side of the Desk: The Challenges Writing
Teachers Face When They Move from Teacher to Tutor
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
Chair: Nathalie Singh-Corcoran, West Virginia University, Morgantown
Speakers: Patti Hanlon-Baker, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Susan Schuyler, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Kelly Myers, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Julia Bleakney, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Respondent: Jonathan Hunt, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 211

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 211

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.07 	

Community, Civic and Public

Critical Food Literacy: New Territories of Inquiry in
Rhetoric and Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri, Columbia, “Setting
the Table: A Rhetorical History of Food Literacy Movements”
Naomi Clark, University of Missouri, Columbia, “Whole-Grain Potato
Chips and Guilt-Free Jell-O: Food Production and Writing Pedagogy”
Dianna Winslow, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, “Citizen Scholars,
Critical Food Literacy, and Sustainability Initiatives in Higher Ed: Rhet/
Comp’s Role”
W. Kurt Stavenhagen, Syracuse University, NY, “Relations or Human Sovereignty: Animals as Fellow Creatures or Fodder for the Conveyor Belt”

I.08 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Own Who You Are: Transforming Roadblocks into
Gateways for Teaching and Learning
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Amy Gerald, Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC
Speakers: Amy Gerald, Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC, “‘You should
pronounce your ‘g’s if you are going to publish with me’: Resisting Hegemonic Discourse Practices in Scholarship and Teaching”
Kathleen McEvoy, Washington and Jefferson College, PA, “It Is ‘Yes’ Not
‘Yeah’: Understanding the Markers of the Working Class”
Pamela Whitfield, Rochester Community and Technical College, MN, “ I‘m
the First Person in My Family to Get an Education’: How Community
College Students Define Difference and Academic Success”
Shannon Stewart, Coastal Carolina University, Conway, SC, “Everything
I Need to Know About Business Writing I Learned from Roller Derby:
Empowering Outsiders to Write Their Way Out of the Margins”

I.09 	

Academic Writing

Acquisition and Learning in New Environments
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Patrick Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Tamara Girardi, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Creative
Writing Pedagogy: A Writer-Centered Approach”
Abigail Grant, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Expectations and Implications: Acquisition and Learning in the Online Classroom”
Mitchell James, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Visual Rhetoric and Expressivism in the Composition Classroom”

212

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 212

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.10 	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Tutors and Mentors Across Curricular Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: James McAfee, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Rebecca Mlynarczyk, City University of New York, Graduate
Center, “Mentoring across the Curriculum: Combining Peer Mentoring
and Composition Pedagogy in a Diversity Honors Program”
Sara Remedios, City University of New York, Graduate Center, “Mentoring across the Curriculum: Combining Peer Mentoring and Composition
Pedagogy in a Diversity Honors Program”
Andrea McKenzie, New York University, NY, “Writing in the Disciplines
Writing Tutors: Enriching Learning, Enriching Teaching”
Esther Milu, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Probation Service
vs. Writing Center Service: A Gateway to Bridging Workplace and Academic Discourses”

I.11 	

Writing Programs

Telling Our Story: Developing a Writing Studio Program to
Support Basic Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Jeff Ringer, Lee University, Cleveland, TN
Speakers: Jeff Ringer, Lee University, Cleveland, TN, “Telling Our Story:
Context”
Bethany Yankie, Lee University, Cleveland, TN, “Telling Our Story: Assessment”
Chase Ramsey, Lee University, Cleveland, TN, “Telling Our Story: Pedagogy”
Kristen Burkett, Lee University, Cleveland, TN, “Telling Our Story: Ownership”

I.12 	

Community Civic and Public

Emotional Discourse: Rhetoric as Embodied
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: Barbi Smyser-Fauble
Speakers: Craig A. Meyer, Ohio University, Athens, “The Gateway to Political Discourse: Explaining the Rhetorical Waves of Fear”
Jenna Vinson, The University of Arizona, Tucson, “Embodied Exigence:
Teenage Pregnancy as Kairotic for Rhetorical Exchange”
Melissa Toomey, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Emotional Turning
Points: Exploring the Efficacy of Emotion as a Theoretical Framework
in Social Movement Rhetoric”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 213

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 213

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.13 	

Theory

Historical and Cultural Perspectives on the Rhetoric of
Rationality: Disciplinary and Scholarly Gateways as Failed
Democratic Organization
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Amir Hassan, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Kellan Deardorff, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Toward a
Rhetoric of Different Words in First-Year Composition Pedagogy”
Amir Hassan, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Rhetorics of Objectivity and
Neutrality in the University”
Martha Wilson Schaffer, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Entymeme as
Ethical and Democratic Use of Language”

I.14 	

In Memoriam: The Life and Work of Greg Colomb
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Joseph Bizup, Boston University
Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University
Carol A. Rutz, Carleton College
Philip Eubanks, Northern Illinois University
Linda S. Bergmann, Purdue University
Ryan Cordell, St. Norbert College
Jon D’Errico, University of Virginia

I.15 	

Academic Writing

International Studies of Literacy and Learning
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Second Floor
Chair: Zachery C. Hickman, Miami University, FL
Speakers: Phillip Marzluf, Kansas State University, Manhattan, “Literacy
Sponsorship in Mongolia”
Ying Wen, California State University, San Bernardino, “Translation Training in Second Language Writing Study in China—Whether Useful in
Improving Students’¯Writing Skills?”
Désirée Motta-Roth, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, “Becoming
Academically Literate through Participation in Research and Discursive
Practices”

214

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 214

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.16 	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Gateways through Silence: Arguments for Textured
Perspectives across Discourse Communities
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Amanda Fields, The University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Amanda Fields, The University of Arizona, Tucson, “A Heuristic
of Silence in the Creative Writing Workshop”
Amy Hickman, The University of Arizona, Tucson, “Promotoras in the
Gap: Listening to the Silences between Divergent Medical Discourses”
Tom Do, The University of Arizona, Tucson, “Active Silence, Generative
Third Space, and the Rearticulation of Vietnamese-American Youths’
Sexual Identities”

I.17 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Extending Writing-about-Writing: Scenes of WAW beyond
First-Year Composition
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Speakers: Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA, “Spiraling into Activism: Writing about Feminist Writing”
Michael Michaud, Rhode Island College, Providence, “BizCom as WAW”
Sarah Read, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, “Teaching Workplace Writing
as a Research(ed) Activity”
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman, “‘Omit Unnecessary
Words’: Resisting Negative Transfer in Disciplinary Writing with Writing-about-Writing”

I.18 	

Information Technologies

Placing Practitioner Knowledge Vis-à-vis the Expert
Claims: Learning about Online Writing Instruction in
American Colleges
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Beth Hewett, University of Maryland-University College, Adelphi
Speakers: Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Expert Views of
Training for Fully Online and Hybrid OWI”
Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, “Expert Views of Pedagogy Regarding Theory and Practice for Fully Online and Hybrid OWI”
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma, “Expert Views Regarding
Special/Disabled Student Populations for Fully Online and Hybrid OWI”
Deborah Minter, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Expert Views from Student
Voices Regarding Fully Online and Hybrid OWI”
June Griffin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Expert Views from Student
Voices Regarding Fully Online and Hybrid OWI”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 215

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 215

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.19 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Teaching Transitions: Multimodal Movements from Home
Languages, the High School, and the Two-Year College
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Thomas Lindsley, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Thomas Lindsley, Iowa State University, Ames, “Multimodality
as Gateway: From Home Language to Academic Discourse”
Tom Ernster, Kirkwood Community College, Cedar Rapids, IA, “From the
Verbal to Visual in Two-Year College Composition: A Case Study”

I.20 	

Community, Civic and Public

What I Want My Words to Do to You: Writing for
Personal and Civic Transformations within Marginalized
Communities
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Kathleen T. Leuschen, University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Speakers: Kathleen T. Leuschen, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, “Personal and Political Transformations for Incarcerated Women:
What They Want Their Words to Do”
Shana Scudder, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, “Access, Rhetorical Listening, and Critical Pedagogy in Correctional Institutes for
Women: What Instructors Want Their Words to Do”
Elizabeth Chiseri-Strater, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, “Gaining Access to Homeless Writers for a Street Newspaper: What They
Want Their Words to Do”

I.21 	

Theory

Theorizing Cultural Difference from Diverse Sites
of Practice
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Lisa Lister, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: Raymond Oenbring, The College of The Bahamas, Nassau,
“Rhetorical Agency in an Oratorical Culture: American Rhetorical Pedagogy in the Bahamian College Composition Classroom”
Andrea Rosso Efthymiou, Stern College for Women, Yeshiva University,
New York, NY, “Exclusionary Education: Discovering Jewish Feminist
Rhetoric in a Writing Center”

216

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 216

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.22 	

Academic Writing

Gateways to College: High School Writing Instruction and
Dual-Credit Courses
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Charles Hoge, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: Betsy Gilliland, University of California, Davis, “High School
Writing Instruction as Gateway or Gatekeeper to College Composition”
Caroline Wilkinson, University of Louisville, KY, “Revising ‘Reciprocity’:
Dual-Credit as a Point of Contact for Institutional Stakeholders”
Steven Engel, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “Gatekeepers: How
High School English Teachers’ Beliefs about Plagiarism Influence FirstYear Writing”

I.23 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Access and AntConc: Using Corpus Analytic Software for
Assessment and Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Melody Pugh, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “N-Grams
and Idiosyncracies: Using Instructors’ End Notes and Marginal Comments as a Gateway to Achieving Program Outcomes”
Sarah Swofford, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “There Seems to Be a
Reason: Why Instructors Use Hedges in Marginal Comments and Endnotes”
Justine Neiderhiser, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, “In Other Words:
Student Response to Instructor Feedback”

I.24 	

Professional and Technical Writing

Technical Communication and the Environment
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Jamie White-Farnham, Univesity of Rhode Island, Kingston
Speakers: Derek Ross, Auburn University, AL, “Deep Audience Analysis:
Understanding Audience in Environment-Related Communication”
Robert Irish, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, “When Disagreement
Is Productive”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 217

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 217

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.25 	

Information Technologies

Remapping Portals to the Digital Parlor
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Heidi Harris, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande
Speakers: Julie Faulkner, Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology, Australia, “A Virtual School for Rethinking Learning”
Erik Ellis, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, “Rethinking the Remix:
Imagine that You Enter a Digital Parlor without YouTube or Google Images”
Heidi Harris, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, “Web 2.0 and Conscientização: Digital Students and Critical Reflection on and in Multimedia”

I.26 	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

U.S. Composition’s Fit in the World: Internationalization’s
Influence on Theory and Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY
Speakers: Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Louisville, KY, “Language Relations and Writing Instruction: Learning with Cross-national Contexts”
Hem Paudel, University of Louisville, KY, “Fitting Pedagogies to Global Language Difference: Making Meaning through Repetition”
Brian Ray, University of North Carolina-Greensboro, “How Ancient Rhetoric
Fits Pragmatic Complexity”
Respondent: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY

I.27 	

Writing Programs

Collaboratively Redesigning First-Year Composition in
Digital Environments: A Gateway for Student Success
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Sherry Rankins-Robertson, Arizona State University, Mesa
Speakers: Duane Roen, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Collaboratively
Redesigning First-Year Composition”
Sherry Rankins-Robertson, Arizona State University, Mesa, “Enhancing
Student Retention and Learning through Multimodal Instruction”
Tiffany Bourelle, Arizona State University, Tempe, “They’re Not Your Students and They’re Not Mine—They’re Ours: Collaborative Teaching in
an Online Environment”

218

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 218

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.28 	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Theory for a Sustainable Field: (Re)shaping the Contours
of Systems Theory in Composition-Rhetoric
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Julie Jung, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Julie Jung, Illinois State University, Normal, “The Rhetorical Appeal and Transgressive Limits of Systems Theory”
Jessica Yood, CUNY -Lehman College, Bronx, NY, “Connections that Bind:
Systems Theory and Composition in a Post-Disciplinary World”
Christopher Leary, Bronx, NY, “Privileging Far-From-Equilibrium Systems”
Chris Mays, Illinois State University, Normal, “Rhetoric as/in a Self-Organizing System”

I.29 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Senior Capstone Courses: Writing Gateways to Student
Doing and Being
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Second Floor
Chair: Rod Keller, Brigham Young University-Idaho, Rexburg
Speakers: Karen Holt, Brigham Young University-Idaho, Rexburg, “Senior
Capstone Courses: Writing Gateways to Student Doing In and Outside
the Discipline”
Elaine Hawker, Brigham Young University-Idaho, Rexburg, “Senior Capstone Courses: Writing Gateways to Student Being and Ethical Judgments”
Rod Keller, Brigham Young University-Idaho, Rexburg, “Senior Capstone
Courses: Writing Gateways to Professional Discourse and Leadership”

I.30 	

Information Technologies

Contemporary Publication Practices as New Gateways
for Writers and Readers
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Tim Laquintano, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, “Even SelfPublished Authors Can Have Their Books Burned: Writing in the Age of
Mass Authorship”
Catherine Prendergast, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “What
can 2000 Students Tell Us about Why Publishers Matter?”
James Purdy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA, “Scholarship on the Move:
Digital Manifestations of Scholarly Activity”
Joyce Walker, Illinois State University, Normal, “Scholarship on the Move:
Digital Manifestations of Scholarly Activity”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 219

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 219

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.31 	

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

Comparing Composing Strategies: Translations,
Histories, and Tweets
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Second Floor

Chair: Jason Kahler, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center,
MI
Speakers: Rachel Parish, Illinois State University, Normal, “‘Scanlation’
and Technical Communication: Reader Translation and Transmission of
Power and Authorship”
Joshua Welsh, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Evaluating Online
and Oral Histories: Comparing Oral and Written Discourse in a Cyberinfrastructure History Project”
Ashley Evans, Ohio University, Athens, “140 Characters or Bust: The Effect of Twitter on Generation Y and Formal Composition Methods”

I.33 	

Institutional and Professional

Standing at the Gate: Ethics, Spirituality, and
Administration
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Joonna Trapp, Waynesburg University, PA, “Developing Persons–the Primary Role of a Department Chair”
Brad Peters, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, “Gateway to Spiritual Values: Conflict Resolution in a Nursing Portfolio Program”

Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, NJ, “Even Administrators Have
Souls”

I.34 	

	

Open Working Meeting of the Committee on the Major in
Writing and Rhetoric
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, Madison, NJ

220

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 220

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J Sessions: 2:00–3:15 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Rachel Bagby
Dekaaz : A new poetic form : A wisdom-capturing
channel : A play of honed words & evocative oration :
Your new favorite tool in the quest for expression
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
Chair: Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
International speaker, vocalist & composer Rachel
Bagby, J.D. is the author of Divine Daughters: Liberating the Power and Passion of Women’s Voices
(Harper San Francisco), a former (founding) member of Bobby McFerrin’s Voicestra, the founder of
Choral Earth, a former reporter for Time, The Wall
Street Journal and other leading publications, and a
graduate of the Stanford University School of Law.
Rachel draws from her expansive background as
a community activist, performance artist, poetic inRachel Bagby
novator, and musical storyteller to deliver a singular
message: your VOICE is an instrument of change.
Play like the world depends on it.
Rachel is devoted to helping women of all ages amplify their powers as leaders—of corporations, of causes, of communities, and of change. Her work in
artistic civic engagement has been recognized with a Bioneers Award, a Donella
Meadows Sustainability Institute Fellowship, and the Arts and Healing Network 2008 Artist of the Year Award.
Her latest artistic innovation is the new poetic form, Dekaaz—well-honed
words & evocative oration in a delightfully addictive ten syllables. Rachel has
explored Dekaaz with corporate leaders as a brainstorming tool, and with civic
activists as a collective wisdom accelerator. Improvised Dekaaz expressions
will be woven into a three-part, highly participatory performance art series as
part of the Seattle Center’s 50th Anniversary Celebration of the 1962 World’s
Fair, in early 2012. Rachel intends to facilitate Dekaaz sessions in five major
cities over the next twelve months, empowering people aged 6 to 106 to reclaim
their instinctive poetic intelligence—ten syllables at a time.
Connect with Rachel Bagby online at RachelBagby.com, and on Twitter at
@RachelBagby.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012 221

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 221

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Featured Session

Access: A Happening
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2
Geoffrey Sirc has argued that composition’s development into a profession and a discipline has led to the
reification and rigidity of ritual, orthodoxy, and convenNo
tion. This process has also led to the rarification of matePhoto
rials and pedagogies for consideration: “the composition
Available
class becomes lip-syncing the standards, and teaching
becomes a question of judging the authenticity of the
imitation” (Sirc). This has clear entailments for access.
The same trends that delimit the work and the materials
Samantha
of composition also exclude students. The technologies,
Blackmon
languages, and subjectivities of composition are subject
to change. This panel is one place where such change is encouraged to happen.
In this special panel, nine presenters will offer brief demonstrations of access
in composition: processes, materials, mediations, stances, and instigations that
would “un-build our field’s spaces” (Sirc). This un-building is focused on removing barriers and confusing the discipline’s boundaries, with a focus on the
bodies and minds that have been excluded. In the spirit of the Happenings of the
1950s and 60s, the format of these demonstrations will challenge the Convention’s conventions. This is an “access happening,” because the future of composition must be more inclusive of all students, faculty, and staff.
Chair:
Jay Dolmage
University of Waterloo, Canada
Speakers:
Samantha Blackmon
Purdue University, West Lafayette

Qwo-Li Driskill

Paul Kei Matsuda

Margaret Price

222

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 222

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Cindy Selfe

Melanie Yergeau

Amy Vidali

Qwo-Li Driskill
Texas A&M University, College Station
Paul Kei Matsuda
Arizona State University, Tempe
Margaret Price
Spelman College, Atlanta
Cindy Selfe
Ohio State University, Columbus
Melanie Yergeau
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Amy Vidali
University of Colorado, Denver

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 223

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 223

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

History

J.01 	 19th-Century Women’s Rhetoricians
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Llana Carroll, New York University, New York
Speakers: Deborah Burns, Merrimack College, N. Andover, MA, “Woman’s Work for Woman: The Rhetoric of Sarah Lanman Smith”
Stacy Kastner, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Listening and Voicing: Mary Leslie Newton’s Rhetoric of Resistance (1874–1944)”
Nancy Myers, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, “The Frontier
of Women Finding Voice: Lockwood’s Merging of Harvard and Yale’s
Visions in One Nationalistic Agenda”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.02 	 “Get Me Bodied”: A Call for Critical Attunement to
Embodied Rhetorics
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Kristie S. Fleckenstein, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Hannah Rule, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Reorienting Ourselves: A Map(ping) of Embodiment(s)”
Daisy Levy, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “In Search of Our Bodies: Using Transdisciplinarity and Multiple Theories of Embodiment to
Re-Figure Rhetoric”
Ethan Philbrick, New York University, NY, “Critical Embodiment in the Classroom: ‘Bad Feelings,’ Racialized Bodies, and Disorienting Whiteness”
Institutional and Professional

J.03 	 MA Programs in Rhetoric and Writing as Sites of
Transition and (Trans)Formation
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: J.S. Dunn, Jr., Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, “The
Emerging Infrastructure of MA Programs in Writing Studies: Results of a
Survey from the Masters Degree Consortium of Writing Studies Specialists”
I. Moriah McCracken, The University of Texas-Pan American, Edinburg,
“Reading Required Core Courses for Disciplinary (Trans)Formations in
Local Contexts”
Kaye Adkins, Missouri Western State University, St. Joseph, “From Political Constraints to Program Innovation”

224

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 224

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Greg Glau, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, “The Online MA in Rhetoric and the Teaching of Writing: Possibilities and Pitfalls”
Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University-San Marcos, “Negotiating Knowledge, Identity, Institution: Making the Transition from Graduate Student to
High School and Community College Teaching”
Laura Clemens, Texas State University-San Marcos, “We Get by With a
Little Help from our Friends: The Role of ‘Community’ in Graduate Students’ Writing Development”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.04 	 Honoring Their Histories, Their Goals, and Their
Literacies: Discussions on Basic Writing Students’
“Readiness”
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Daniel Sansing, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Confidence vs.
Doubt in the Basic Writing Classroom: How Playing with Language
Jumpstarts Insecure Student Writers”
Ann-Marie Lopez, McMurry University, Abilene, TX, “Writing Like We
Speak: An Analysis of Basic Writers Inclusion of Spoken Discourse
Markers in Academic Texts”
Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Sure, We ‘Say’ That, But Do
We Mean It? Talking about ‘Meeting Students Where They Are’ in Basic
Writing”
Professional and Technical Writing

J.05 	 Reception, Risk, and Revision in Professional
Communication
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Patsy Watts, East Central College, Rolla, MO
Speakers: Sam Dragga, Texas Tech University / The Chinese University of
Lubbock, “Dangerous Neighbors: Disaster, Dissolution, and the Rhetoric of Risk”
Gwendolyn Gong, Texas Tech University / The Chinese University of Lubbock, “Dangerous Neighbors: Disaster, Dissolution, and the Rhetoric of
Risk”
Heather Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, “Writing, Science, and Knowledge Mobilization: Reaching the Ever-Changing Reader”
Lindsay Steiner, Kent State University, OH, “Composer’s Decisions in One
Creative Process at an In-House Marketing Firm”
Olumide Ogundipe, University of Alberta, Canada, “Writing, Science, and
Knowledge Mobilization: Reaching the Ever-Changing Reader”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 225

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 225

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Research

J.06 	 Taking a Multilingual/Translingual Approach to Teaching
and Tutoring Writing at Hispanic-Serving Institutions
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, Fort LauderdaleDavie, FL
Speakers: Kevin Dvorak, Nova Southeastern University, Fort LauderdaleDavie, FL,
Paula Gillespie, Florida International University, Miami
Aileen Valdes, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale-Davie, FL
Language

J.07 	 Questioning Englishes across Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Christy Wenger, Shepherd University, Shepherdstown, WV
Speakers: Ghanashyam Sharma, University of Louisville, KY, “Does Language Matter? Non-Native English Speaking Scholars’ Perceptions of
Language Difference in Academic Writing in the Disciplines”
Shan Wen, California State University, San Bernardino, “Co-existence of
Chinese and English Writing Patterns in L2 Writings”
Dhruba Neupane, University of Louisville, KY, “Beyond ‘Whose English
We Use’: A Translingual Approach to Communication”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.08 	 Multimodal Composition and Youth Rhetorics: Gateways
for Student Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Abraham Encinas, California State University, Los Angeles
Speakers: Efren Lopez, California State University, Los Angeles, “Writers
Gonna Write: Text/Visual Internet Memes and Composition Pedagogy”
David Fulps, California State University, Los Angeles, “Teen Blogging: Digital
Rhetorical Gateways toward Innovative Multimodal Pedagogical Composition Strategies”
Abraham Encinas, California State University, Los Angeles, “Examining and
Writing Comic Books in the Classroom”
Joshua Adachi, California State University, Los Angeles, “YouTube as a
Platform to Engage the Past and Present”

226

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 226

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.09 	 The Age of the Memoir: Teaching Writing in a Lifelong
Learning Setting
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Marjorie Roemer, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA
Speakers: Sharon Sokoloff, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, “The Principles of Lifelong Learning and Its Special Characteristics”
Alorie Parkhill, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, “Examining Our Stories”
Marjorie Roemer, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, “Framing Experience,
or What I Learned from Frank McCourt”
Respondent: Russel Durst, University of Cincinnati, OH
Writing Programs

J.10 	 Assessing Student Writing when Convergent Media and
Visual Rhetoric Change the Evaluative Interface
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Stacia Dunn Neeley, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth
Speakers: Whitney Myers, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth, “‘But
Didn’t You Think My Website Looked Nice?’: Confronting Paradox between What Students Hear and What Teachers Ask for in the Multimodal
FYW Class”
Carol Johnson Gerendas, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth, “Through
the Looking Glass: How Convergent Media, Genre, and Visual Rhetoric
Inform Assessment of Multimodal Writing”
Stacia Dunn Neeley, Texas Wesleyan University, Fort Worth, “Closing the
Loop: Embedding Ethics in Sequenced Assignment Assessment”
Carrie Leverenz, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, “Assessing Resistance to Multimodal Composing among Advanced Writers”
Creative Writing

J.11 	 The Rhetorics of Writing Center Websites and Tutors
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: April Mann, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
Speakers: Jennifer Gray, College of Coastal Georgia, Brunswick, “‘I know
we are supposed to do this, but . . .’: Exploring New Writing Center Tutors’ Perspectives and Pressures”
Brian Fallon, Fashion Institute of Technology-State University of New
York, NY, “Scholarship, Labor, and Peer Tutors: A Writing Center Gateway Dilemma”
Barrie Meadows, University of Louisville, KY, “Programming What We
Preach: The Epistemology of Writing Center Websites”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 227

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 227

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.12 	 Analysis of Cross Cultural Frames and Practices
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Tika Lamsal, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Arwa Malaibari, Illinois State University, Normal, “Free as
Transnational Feminism: Localizing the Rhetoric of Veiling in Middle
Eastern Visual Discourse”
Diane Martinez, Kaplan University, Utah State University, Logan, “Creating Global and International Gateways in Higher Education: A Study
of the Collaborative Communication in the European Bologna Process”
Robert Schafer, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Hofstede Today: A Replication Study of Hofstede’s Heuristic of Cultural Dimensions for Intercultural Technical Communication”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.13 	 Confronting Digital Literacy Myths in Theory and Practice
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, NY
Speakers: Don Jones, University of Hartford, West Hartford, CT, “The
Digital Literacy Debate: From Technological Determinism to Student
Agency”
Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, NY, “Myths of Decline and Ignorance: Engaging Writing Pedagogy amid Popular Views of Digital
Literacy”
Michael Harker, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “The Pedagogy of the
Digital Archive of Literacy Narratives: Literacy Sponsorship in Action”
Kate Comer, Barry University, Miami Shores, FL, “The Pedagogy of the
Digital Archive of Literacy Narratives: Literacy Sponsorship in Action”
Theory

J.14 	 Imagining Ann Berthoff’s “Mysterious Barricades” as a
Passage through Constructivist Dilemmas
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI
Speakers: Kate Ronald, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Style after the Social Turn: The Mysterious Barricade of the Sentence”
Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, “Mysterious
Barricades and the Way Past ‘Gangster Theories’ That Limit Research
and Inquiry on Writing”
Hephzibah Roskelly, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro, “The
Possibility of Imagining Others”

228

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 228

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

J.15 	 Gateway or Gatekeeper? Critical Perspectives on the
Course Management System in Higher Education
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: David Bowen, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Shopping Online: Course Management Systems and the Creative Writing Workshop”
Rachael Sullivan, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Between Wordpress
and a Hard Place”
Adam Pacton, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Cms-Mediated Identity”
Jennifer Marlow, The College Of Saint Rose, Albany, NY, “Course-In-A-Box
and Corporate Control”
Carrie Lamanna, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, “Owning It: Customizing The Course Management System”
Academic Writing

J.16 	 Consulting with Students about Source-Work: The
Citation Project in the Writing Center and the First-Year
Writing Class
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Missy Watson, Syracuse University, NY, “Genre-Based Pedagogies
and Writing Center Models: A Pilot Writing Course for Multilingual Graduate Students”
Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State College of Denver, CO, “Toward Excessive Research: A Writing Center Pedagogy that Responds to Citation
Project Findings”
Maya Sanyal, Drew University, Madison, NJ, “Academic Writing for International Students: Non-Native Speakers of English in a First-Year Composition Class”
Community, Civic and Public

J.17 	 Intersections of Literacy and Race in Communities
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Amy Lannin, University of Missouri, Columbia
Speakers: Ryan Witt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “Locked Gateways, but What are the Keys?: The Dynamics of Literacy among Stakeholders in an Urban Work-Readiness Program”
David Hudson, University of Wisconsin, Madison, “African American Jeremiads and the Politics of Spatialized Reception”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 229

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 229

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.18 	 African American Rhetoric: A Gateway for Diverse
Rhetorical Instruction in a 21st Century Composition
Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Frank Farmer, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Speakers: Kendra Fullwood, University of Kansas, Lawrence, “The Extracurriculum of a Black Preacher: Traditions of Cultural Invention in the
African American Community”
Cedric Burrows, University of Kansas, Lawrence, “The Construction of Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., in Composition Textbooks”
Kundai Chirindo, University of Kansas, Lawrence, “Toward Diunital Politics: Identity, Ideology, and Ethics in Barack Obama”
Research

J.19 	 New Models for Writing Instruction
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Monique Akassi, Virginia Union University, Richmond
Speakers: Allen Brizee, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore, “Participatory Civic Engagement: Usability Research as a Methodology for
Building College-Community Relationships”
Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, MA, “Assessing Writing in a Project-Based Curriculum: Alternatives to FYC”
Wanda Lloyd, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Bridging the Gap:
Demystifying the Transition between High School and College Writing”
Bridget Kozlow, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Bridging the
Gap: Demystifying the Transition between High School and College
Writing”
Information Technologies

J.20 	 Epistemological and Language Difference: Cultural
Relevancy in Online Pedagogies
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Sherena Huntsman, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Erin Jensen, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Peer-Review
Writing Workshops: Classroom vs. Online”
Jessie Richards, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Decolonizing ‘Normal’ in Composition’s ALE Courses”
Sherena Huntsman, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “The Digital Synchronous Discussion and the L2 Learner”

230

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 230

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

J.21 	 Perceptions Are Gatekeepers: Exploring Ways to
Increase Student Engagement with the Writing Center
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor

Chair: Katherine Schaefer, University of Rochester, NY
Speakers: Katherine Schaefer, University of Rochester, NY, “Understanding
How High School Experiences with Individualized Writing Feedback
Shape Perceptions of the College Writing Center”
Stefanie Sydelnik, University of Rochester, NY, “Beyond the Rating Scale:
Interpreting Student Assesment of Writing Center Helpfulness”
Stella Wang, University of Rochester, NY, “More than Word Replacement:
Helping ESOL Academic Writers Revise Collocationally”
Community, Civic and Public

J.22 	 Is Writing Back Enough? Investigating Rhetorical Agency
through Publication
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, “Raising the Bar: Publishing from the Prison Industrial Complex”
Vanessa Rouillon, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “African
American Visual Rhetoric in Black Journals: Self-Representations Contributing to Race Work”
John O’Connor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Contra
Verses: How the Park51 Community Center Was (Re)Mediated into the
Ground Zero Mosque”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.23 	 First-Year Writing Circa 2012: How Many Gateways?
And to What?
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level

Chair: Amy Hodges Hamilton, Belmont University, Nashville, TN
Speakers: Bill Bridges, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, TX, “A
Brief History of Composition: Looking Back at the Gateways We’ve
Walked Through”
Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “An Examination of Composition Theory and Practice Circa 2012: Composition
as a Gateway to What?”
Ronald Lunsford, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, “An Analysis
of the Responses of the Twelve Theorists: How Many Gateways Are
There?”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 231

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 231

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

J.24 	 The WPA’s First Year: How to Listen and Act
Simultaneously
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Holly Ryan, Penn State Berks, Reading
Speakers: Holly Ryan, Penn State Berks, Reading, “The New Writing Center Administrator: Listening for Your Voice on Campus”
Stacy Day, Penn State, Abington, “The Non-Tenure Track WPA: Can You
Practice Rhetorical Listening by Choosing Not to Listen?”
Noel Sloboda, Penn State, York, “Writing Program Administration without
a Writing Program Administrator”
Betsy Verhoeven, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA, “(Re)Writing
the Curriculum: A WPA’s Journey toward Integration”
History

J.25 	 Writing the Past as a Gateway to the Future
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington
Speakers: Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington,
“WAC Gateways: Toby Fulwiler’s Legacy”
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “What Roger Garrison
Can Teach Us: One-to-One Teaching as a Gateway to the Future”
Lauren Williams, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “Locating the Rose
Writing Fellows in the Politics of Literacy”
Anne Ellen Geller, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “Six Months in the
Midwest: The NEH/Iowa Institutes as Professional Gateway”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.26 	 The Panel Is a Gateway: Comics, Multimodal Writing, and
Rhetorical Transition
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Molly Scanlon, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Speakers: Molly Scanlon, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Negotiating Issues
of Literacy and Writer Identity in the Multimodal Medium of Comics”
Franny Howes, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Reiteration, Concatenation,
Comics, and Dykes”
Daniel Lawson, Central College, Pella, IA, “Equally Terrorized: The Rhetorical Function of Irony in the Shadow of No Towers”

232

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 232

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Theory

J.27 	 Argument, Authorship, and Plagiarism in Digital Realms
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Emily Johnston, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Les Loncharich, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “On
the Possibility of Visual Genre: Flickr and the Texts of Everyday Life”
Jim Sundeen, Metropolitan State College of Denver, CO, “Author, Reader,
Text, and Context: A Rhetorical Reading of ‘Plagiarism’ Reports”
Kim Moreland, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Citationality, Ethics,
and Authorship in Digital Media”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.28 	 E/Merging Technologies: Bridging Spaces Spanning
Practices
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: Erin Trauth, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Erin Trauth, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Creating Meaning for Millennials: Bakhtin, Rosenblatt, and the Use of Social Media in
the Composition Classroom”
Ronda Wery, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “‘Only Connect’: Student
Agency and Instructor Identity in a Graduate-Level E-Learning Environment”
Kate Crane, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Reacting to New Gateways
of Knowledge: Student Perceptions of E-Textbook Adoption”
Andrea Beaudin, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Technology as Pedagogy: The Rhetoric of Course Management Systems”
Writing Programs

J.29 	 CUNY’s Assessment of Academic Writing Proficiency:
A Case Study
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
Chair: Raymond Moy, City University of New York, NY
Speakers: Raymond Moy, City University of New York, NY, “Defining the
Test Purpose-Reaching Agreement on What to Assess and How”
Eve Zarin, City University of New York, NY, “From Blueprint to Reality:
Using City University of New York’s Writing Program Infrastructure to
Develop Effective Test Prompts and to Maintain the Quality of Essay
Scoring”
Susan Young, City University of New York, NY, “Closing the Loop: Using
the Test for Improving the Teaching and Learning of Writing Skills”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 233

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 233

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.30 	 A Christian, a Muslim, and a Jew Walk into a Classroom:
Religion and Faith in First-Year Composition Courses
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Deidre Garriott, University of Tennessee-Knoxville
Speakers: Jame Farley, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, “‘Inquiry into
Faith Journeys’: Suggestions for a Faith-Focused FYC Course”
Deidre Garriott, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, “The Elephant in the
Room: Discussion of Religion at a Bible Belt University”
Bushra Malaibari, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, “It’s a Hijab, Not a
Microphone: Isolating Muslim Women as Religious Tokens”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

J.31 	 Plagiarism 2.0: The Techne of Thieving in a Digital Age
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: David J. Daniels, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: David J. Daniels, University of Denver, CO, “Centos, Girl Talk,
and Performative Plagiarism”
Matt Hill, University of Denver, CO, “Wading through Avalanches of
Meaning”
Blake Sanz, University of Denver, CO, “Implications of Fair Use in a Remix Video Composition Course”
Eric Dieter, University of Texas at Austin, “End Quoting: Extant Ethos and
the Dialogic Echo”
Community, Civic and Public

J.32 	 Lessons from the Inside: Rethinking Pedagogical
Concepts through the Lens of the Prison Writing
Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Lobby Level

Chair: Christina Friend, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Grace Wetzel, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Student-Inmate Collaborative Writing: Reconsidering Rhetorical Concepts
in Service Learning”
Mark Wenger, Columbia International University, SC, “Rethinking Liberatory Pedagogy: Lessons from an Inmate/First-Year Composition Writing
Exchange”

234

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 234

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Christina Friend, University of South Carolina, Columbia, “Beyond Tactics
and Strategies: WPA Roles in Creating Sustainable Community Partnerships”
Respondent: Inmate name withheld due to institutional policy, Kirkland
Correctional Institution, Columbia, SC
Inmate name withheld due to institutional policy. Kirkland Correctional Institution, Columbia, SC
Research

J.33 	 Rhetorics Regulating Childhood: States of Emergency
and Legal Exception
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
Chair: Katrina Powell, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg

Speakers: Katrina Powell, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Historical
and Legal Representations of ‘Feebleminded’ Children”
Wendy Hesford, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Children’s
Rights, Birthright Citizenship, and the Conservative Right”
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, “Regulating
Consent: Protecting and Prosecuting Juvenile Girls”
Respondent: Brenda Brueggemann, The Ohio State University, Columbus

J.34 	 Open Working Meeting of the Special Interest Group on
Teaching Adult Learners in Diverse Contexts
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Michelle Navarre Cleary, DePaul University, Chicago, IL

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 235

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 235

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

K Sessions: 3:30–4:45 p.m.
Featured Session

Automated Essay Scoring: Gateway to Valid
Assessment, Effective Learning, or the Twilight Zone
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
In 2006, Patricia Freitag Ericsson and Richard Haswell
edited a well-known collection, Machine Scoring of
Student Essays: Truth and Consequences, intended for
teachers of writing. Two years earlier a collection of essays edited by Marc D. Shermis and Jill C. Burstein, Automated Essay Scoring: A Cross-Disciplinary Perspective, focused on the evolution, validity, and applications
of these systems. Although these two volumes were
on the same topic, they represented two communities
whose members rarely talk to each other. This session is
designed to foster a dialogue and disputation by bringing
together a disparate group of individuals, some of whom
are involved with the development of Automated Essay
Scoring (AES) systems and others who are vocal critics
of it. Its goal is to provide a vigorous but civil debate on
the topic while introducing both the latest innovations in
AES and the most recent objections to it.
Chair:
Norbert Elliot
New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark

Carl Whithaus

Les Perelman

Paul Deane

Chaitanya
Ramineni

Norbert Elliot

236

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 236

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers:
Paul Deane
Educational Testing Service, Princeton, NJ, “Features, Fluency, and Feedback:
How Automated Essay scoring Works and What it Can (and Cannot) Do”
Chaitanya Ramineni
Educational Testing Service, Princeton, NJ, “Using Essay Scoring for Valid Assessments of Writing Ability”
Carl Whithaus
University of California, Davis, “Effective Learning: Possibilities for Software
Feedback and the Teaching of Multimodal Writing”
Les Perelman
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, “Curiouser and Curiouser!:
Through the Looking Glass World of Automated Essay Scoring”
Respondent:
Norbert Elliot
New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark

Featured International Session

Database-Driven Technology for Teaching Writing
(and Reading): A Global Tour
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
In this session, we will go around the world looking
at database-driven technology for supporting student
writing (and reading). Web 2.0 has captured the headlines, but the database technology that underlies it is
being developed in cutting edge ways around the globe
to provide more and more useful tools for teachers and
students. In the U.S., those tools have too often been
produced by testing organizations that market formative assessment products based on their automatic
George Pullman
grading software—and thus only teach the genre of
traditional school themes that those tests require. In
contrast, an online writing assistant for teaching academic writing in Dutch and
French, for example, provides tools that go far beyond the kind of assessmentdriven tools that are marketed in the U.S. for supporting student writing. This
panel will demonstrate this and other tools that harness the power of databases
for supporting writers.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 237

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 237

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Serge Verlinde

Lieve De Wachter

Margaret
Franken

No
Photo
Available

Shaoqun Wu

Doreen StarkeMeyerring

Chairs:
David Russell
Iowa State University, Ames
Doreen Starke-Meyerring
McGill University, Montreal
Speakers:
George Pullman
Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Database-Driven Writing Technology in the
US: A Case Study”
Serge Verlinde and Lieve De Wachter
Katholieke Universiteit, Leuven, Belgium, “Database-Driven Writing Technology in Belgium: A Case Study”
Margaret Franken and Shaoqun Wu
University of Waikato, New Zealand, “Database-Driven Writing/Reading Technology in New Zealand: A Case Study”
Respondent:
Doreen Starke-Meyerring
McGill University, Montreal

238

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 238

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Creative Writing

K.01 	 The Hybrid TA: Composition, Rhetoric, and Creative
Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: David Yost, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Christopher Drew, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Composing Creatively: Further Crossing Composition/Creative Writing Boundaries”
Joseph Rein, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Write What You Don’t
Know: Teaching Creative Research”
Janelle Adsit, State University of New York, Albany, “Adapting Writing Center
Pedagogy for the Undergraduate Creative Writing Workshop”
John Belk, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Something to
Push Up Against: Rhetoric as Creative Pedagogy”
David Yost, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Composing Creatively:
Further Crossing Composition/Creative Writing Boundaries”
Kimberly Quiogue Andrews, Yale University, New Haven, CT, “Something
to Push Up Against: The Intersection of Theory and Creative Pedagogy”
Language

K.02 	 Who Left the Gate Open?: African American Rhetorical
Tradition as an Effective Gateway for Written and Oral
Communication
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Beverly Moss, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Kedra James, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, “African
American English among First-Year Writing Students at Historically
Black Colleges and Universities”
Bonnie Williams, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Cross Cultural
Composition: Can the African American Verbal Tradition Enhance Academic Writing?”
Erica Britt, University of Michigan-Flint, “Black Style in the Public Sphere:
An Investigation of Black Modes of Communication in Public Speech”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 239

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 239

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Theory

K.03 	 Gateways through the Apocalypse: A Panel Response to
Richard Miller’s Writing at the End of the World
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Richard Miller, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ
Speakers: Ruth Babb, St. Louis University, MO, “Another Judgment Day:
Contextualizing the Apocalyptic Urge in Richard Miller’s Writing at the
End of the World”
Anthony Cirilla, St. Louis University, MO, “Descartes’ Ghost: Finding a
Guide through Miller’s Apocalypse”
Matthew Miller, St. Louis University, MO, “Richard Miller’s Secular Eschatology”
Janessa Toro, St. Louis University, MO, “Reclaiming the Apocalypse: Writing, Technology, and a Return to Eden”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.04 	 A Promising New Model for Basic Writing:
The Accelerated Learning Program (ALP)
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor
Chair: Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Susan Gabriel, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Jan Allen, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Professional and Technical Writing

K.05 	 New Program Designs in Technical Communication
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Ella Jean Davis, Wayne County Community College, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Nancy Karabeyoglu, Sabanci University, Orhanli, Istanbul, “Image of Science: Creating Collaborative Spaces and Strategies to Increase
Research Output—Bringing Together Researchers, Designers, and Writers”
Meredith Zoetewey, University of South Florida, Tampa, “Frugal Technical
Communication: Program Innovation during Economic Downturns and
Beyond”
Michele Simmons, Miami University, Oxford, OH, “Frugal Technical
Communication: Program Innovation during Economic Downturns and
Beyond”
Tatiana Teslenko, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada,
“WAC in the Engineering Context”

240

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 240

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

K.06 	 Constructing the Gates: Structures for Success in
International and Domestic Service Learning Initiatives
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Lara Smith-Sitton, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Jesslyn Collins-Frohlich, University of Kentucky, Lexington,
“Community Collaboration: Building Partnerships for Effective International Service Learning”
Amy Anderson, University of Kentucky, Lexington, “Engaging and Other:
The Impact of Community Engagement and Digital Literacy on International Service Learning”
Lynn Boettler, Kennesaw State University, GA, “Service Learning Remix”
Lara Smith-Sitton, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Participating and
Practice: Service Learning Structures that Prepare Students for Active
Citizenship in the World and the Workplace”
Community, Civic and Public

K.07 	 It’s About Time: Learning from Failures in Civic
Engagement and Community-Based Work
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Madhu Narayan, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Success, Failure, and What Time Can Teach Us about Writing Instruction”
John Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Fast Failure, Slow
Community: Methodologies for Community-Driven Projects”
Katie Livingston, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Listening to My
Gut: Practicing Embodied Methodologies and Pedagogies in ServiceLearning Courses”
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Failing
to See Communities in Motion: Community-Based Work as Recursive
Over Time”
Respondent: Paula Mathieu, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 241

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 241

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

K.08 	 Managing Teacher Training: Theory, Assessment, and
English Language Learners
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Ina Seethaler, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Leah Zuidema, Dordt College, Sioux Center, IA, “Learning to
Assess: The Resources Teachers Use to Read and Respond to Writing”
James Fredricksen, Boise State University, ID, “Learning to Assess: The
Resources Teachers Use to Read and Respond to Writing”
Lillian Campbell, University of Washington, Seattle, “Managing and Merging Composition Paradigms: New TA’s Negotiate the Theoretical Divide”
Amina Nihlawi, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, “Content Analysis of
Teaching Second Language Writing Courses”
History

K.09 	 Radical (Regional) Literacies
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Nichol McFarlane, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Erin Chandler, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, “To the Disinherited Belongs the Future: Howard Kester and Agrarian Radicalism”
Rachel Jackson, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Radical Recovery in
Oklahoma: Regionalist Rhetoric as a Gateway to Resistance”
Maryam Jamali Ashtiani, California State University, Fresno, “California
Proposition 13 and the (Re)construction of Racialized Identities in Higher Education”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

K.10 	 Writing Groups, Writing Students, Writing Centers: Using
Activity Theory to Make Sense of Academic Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Mike Carter, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Kerry Dirk, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, “Moving among Activity
Systems: Faculty as Writers and Teachers”
Faith Kurtyka, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Everyday Life on Location:
An Activity Theory Analysis of the Spaces of Student Life”
Jennifer Grouling, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, “The Writing Center:
A Composition Gateway”

242

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 242

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.11 	 Pedagogies of Difference
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: Jo Ann Thompson, Clermont College/University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Sarah Klotz, University of California, Davis, “Social Geographies and New Mestiza Rhetorics: Approaching Ethnic Identities in the
Classroom”
Lana Oweidat, Ohio University, Athens, “Disrupting the Western Gaze:
Building ‘Unlikely Coalitions’ across Borders”
Melanie Lee, Ohio University, Athens, OH, “And She’s Writing a Stairway
to Heaven: Negotiating Gendered Gateways”
Academic Writing

K.12 	 Questioning the Myth of Transience for Multilingual
Learners: FYC, WAC, and EAP Perspectives on the
Journey toward Advanced Literacies
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: Tarez Samra Graban, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Tarez Samra Graban, Indiana University, Bloomington, “The FirstYear Writer: Developing Textual Identities”
Jonathan Hall, CUNY-York College, Jamaica, “The Junior Writer: Language
Background, Student Engagement, and Academic Writing/Reading”
Young-Kyung Min, University of Washington, Bothell, “The Graduate Writer: ESL 501 = ESL 115?”
Research

K.13 	 Student Attitude and Prior Knowledge in Undergraduate
and Graduate Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Randy Nichols, Limestone College, Gaffney, SC
Speakers: Brent Chappelow, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Comparing
Students Attitudes in WAW and Non-WAW Courses”
Dan Bommarito, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Comparing Students
Attitudes in WAW and Non-WAW Courses”
Darci Thoune, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, “What the Learner Already Knows: Understanding Student Invention Practices”
Bryan Kopp, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, “What the Learner Already Knows: Understanding Student Invention Practices”
Laurie A. Pinkert, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Minding the
Gap: Results of a Survey of Graduate Student Writing Experience”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 243

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 243

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

K.14 	 New Gateways for Research: Digital Humanities and
Writing Studies
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Matthew Gold, New York City College of Technology, Brooklyn, “Disciplinary Formations: Rooting Out the Digital Humanities”
Kathie Gossett, Iowa State University, Ames, “‘One Week, One Tool’ and
One Rhetor”
Karl Stolley, Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, “No, Really: Learn
to Program”
Geoffrey Sauer, Iowa State University, Ames, “Ownership and Control of
the Means of Production?”
Ryan Trauman, University of Louisville, KY, “The Book: A Machine of
Intersecting Histories”
Liza Potts, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, “Employing the Digital
Humanities Student in Industry and Academia”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.15 	 Rhetoric, History, Culture: Connections
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Cathryn Molloy, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Speakers: Henrietta Shirk, Montana Tech of the University of Montana,
Butte, “Writing in/of Place: Local Historical Visual Rhetoric as Topoi”
Jennifer Rich, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY, “Memory as Persuasion:
Teaching Rhetorical Analysis through Holocaust Memorials in First-Year
Composition Classes”
Juan Gallegos, University of Arizona, Tucson, “‘Bajito y Suavecito’: Cruising through Composition”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

K.16 	 Classroom Queeries: Graduate Students Respond to the
Call for More GLBTQI Inclusion within the Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Rose Gubele, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant
Speakers: Lauren Begley, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant,
“How Grad Students Can Approach GLBTQI Issues within First-Year
Composition”
Michelle Campbell, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, “Questioning the Quagmired Classroom”
Christopher Wiesman, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, “The
Post-Queer in the Classroom”

244

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 244

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

K.17 	 Flooding the Gatekeeper’s Gates: When Other People’s
Children Become Educators
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Vershawn Young, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Jessica Barros, University of California, Santa Barbara, “Tryna
Catch Me Ridin Dirty: When Black Students and Educators Know Their
Black Literacies Are Policied in Academia”
Todd Craig, College of Staten Island (CUNY), NY, “When Gatekeepers Are
Kept from the Gates: The Exclusion of the Hip-Hop DJ as Writer/Composer in Writing Classrooms”
John Rodriguez, Queensborough Community College, NY, “The Spic Who
Sat by the Door”
Writing Programs

K.18 	 The Information Literacy Lab: A Partnership between
First-Year Writing and the Library
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor
Chair: Denise Paster, Coastal Carolina University, Conway, SC
Speakers: Joshua Vossler, Coastal Carolina University, Conway, SC
Denise Paster, Coastal Carolina University, Conway, SC
Ellen Arnold, Coastal Carolina University, Conway, SC
Writing Programs

K.19 	 Institutional and Civic Responsibilities to “Warrior
Writers” in the Writing Classroom: Initial Findings of
a CCCC Research Grant Study
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Roger Thompson, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
Speakers: Roger Thompson, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
D. Alexis Hart, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.20 	 Ecological Approaches to Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Rima Gulshan, Northern Virginia Community College, Annandale
Speakers: Amanda Rook, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “A Network
of Relationships: Applying Ecocomposition to the Online Activist Frontier”
Sarah Perrault, University of California, Davis, “Why Rhetoric of Science
Should Look at Ecology Rather than Physics”
Peter Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Ecological Literacy: Writing the Future”
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 245

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 245

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Theory

K.21 	 Departures (of/from) Post-Process
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Laura Brown, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Matthew Heard, University of North Texas, Denton, “Habits of
a Post-Process WPA”
J.A. Rice, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, “(Re)Writing PostProcess Futures”
John Whicker, Ohio University, Athens, “We Have Never Been Process:
Process, Post-Process, and the Teaching of Writing”
History

K.22 	 Opening the Doors: Higher Education in the 1960’s
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Robert Watkins, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Jimisha Relerford, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Lessons
from the Spaces: What a Narrative History of Composition at HBCUs
Can Contribute to the Field Today”
Daylanne Markwardt, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Open Access or the
Closed Door: Competing Discourses of Higher Education Reform”
Annie Mendenhall, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “‘At a Hinge of
History’: Composition Research and the Multiversity in 1963”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.23 	 Multimodality, Visual Rhetoric, and Marshall McLuhan
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Ron Brooks, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, “Gateways
beyond Analysis: McLuhan’s Posthumanist Metaphors”
Bronwyn T. Williams, University of Louisville, KY, “From Screen to
Screen: Students’ Use of Popular Culture Genres in Multimodal Writing
Assignments”
James Jackson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Teaching the Resume as a Visual Document: Using Cultural Modeling and Pedagogical
Content Knowledge to Teach Visual Rhetoric”
Michael Tardiff, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Teaching the
Resume as a Visual Document: Using Cultural Modeling and Pedagogical Content Knowledge to Teach Visual Rhetoric”

246

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 246

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

K.24 	 Reconsidering Reading and Style in Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Second Floor
Chair: Evelyn Baldwin, University of Arkansas, Little Rock
Speakers: Tom Pace, John Carroll University, University Heights, OH,
“Academic Style and Critical Thinking: An Apologia for They Say/I
Say”
G. Travis Adams, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Composition and the
Teaching of Reading”
Daniel Keller, The Ohio State University, Newark, “Reconsidering Reading’s Place in Composition Studies”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.25 	 Teaching Meta-awareness: A key for students’ Transfer of
Writing Knowledge through Discursive Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Barb Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN
Speakers: Barb Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN, “Reading about Affective Meta-Awareness Leads Students to Gain Their Own Voice in Academic Discourse”
Carie King, Taylor University, Upland, IN, “Reading about Affective MetaAwareness Leads Students to Gain Their Own Voice in Academic Discourse”
Respondent: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.26 	 Ten Years after 9/11: Encounters with Islam in the
Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Second Floor
Chair: Blake Wilder, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Aisha Sharif, Park University; Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS, “The Muslim Instructor as Text: Sharing the
Private to Teach the Public”
Blake Wilder, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “Re-examining the
‘American Life’ Troubling Students’ Sense of American Identity in a
Global Context”
Suhaan Mehta, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “A Periscopic Lens
on Islam in a Class on Post–9/11 Fiction”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 247

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 247

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

K.27 	 Unlocking Interfaces: Rhetorical Mechanics and
Multimedia Gateways
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Paul Muhlhauser, Washington State University-Tri-Cities, Richland
Speakers: Paul Muhlhauser, Washington State University-Tri-Cities, Richland, “Exorcising Print Poltergeists”
Envera Dukaj, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “YouTube’s Piracy
Problem”
Casey Boyle, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, “Inventing from Seams,
Glitches, and Malfunctions”
Theory

K.28 	 Maintaining Civil Discourse among Rhetorics of Belief
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Second Floor
Chair: Anna Gurley, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Craig Rood, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
“Toward a More Civil Rhetoric”
Kristine Johnson, Xavier University, Cincinnati, OH, “Transcending the
Gateway: From Religious Faith to Public Discourse”
Erika Spohrer, Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, FL, “The Body as Gateway
to ‘Clear’: Scientology’s Purification Rundown”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

K.29 	 A High-School Initiated College Collaboration for Writing
and Rhetoric: Creating Gateways for Writing and Rhetoric-Intensive Faculty Development Partnerships
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Pamela Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
Speakers: Pamela Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA, “Collaboration Among Colleagues at the Institution and Beyond: A WAC-Writing
Center Consultant Enters the Picture”
Chris Thaiss, University of California-Davis, “Joining the Collaboration:
A University Perspective on Student Preparation for College Writing
across Disciplines”
Students (Video)

248

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 248

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

K.30 	 Gateways to Self and Others: Examining Contemplative
Practices in the Writing Classroom
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Second Floor

Chair: Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT
Speakers: Melissa A. Goldthwaite, St. Joseph University, Philadelphia, PA,
“Opening Silences: Reflective Practices for the Writing Classroom”
Mike Heller, Roanoke College, Salem, VA, “Reading Inwardly: Becoming
Readers of Our Own Lives”
Robbie Pinter, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, “Journaling and Ritual:
Practice as a Gateway to Writing”
Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, Berea, KY, “Image and Word: Visual Arts
as a Gateway to Writing”

K.31 	 Think-Tank for Newcomers: Developing Papers and
Sessions for CCCC 2013
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Salem, VA
Speaker: Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Salem, VA
Community, Civic and Public

K.32 	 Writing within the Trope of Ruin: Loss and Rejuvenation
in the Shifting Academic Landscape in Urban America
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Bruce Martin, University of Houston, TX
Speakers: Sadaf Alam, University of Houston, TX, “The Ruin of Respect, or
the Respect of Ruin: Muslim Southeast Asian Students in the American
Classroom”
Lane Fletcher, University of Houston, TX, “Falling Apart and Going Forward:
Writing Strategies in FYW”
Bruce Martin, University of Houston, TX, “Auto/Ethnography as the Hook:
First-Year Writing as a Gateway to University Scholarship”
Natalie Stigall, University of Houston, TX, “Building a Mansion from the Ruin
of Modern Culture”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 249

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 249

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Creative Writing

K.34 	 Creative Gateways: How Poetry Teaches Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Second Floor

Chair: James Seitz, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Robin Clarke, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Elliptical Poetry, the
New Sentence, and Uncanny Knowledge”
Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, “Writing without Authority,
Writing without Success”
James Seitz, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “From Poetry to the Essay”
Respondent: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY

K.35 	 Open Working Meeting of the Committee on Best
Practices in Online Writing Instruction
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Beth L. Hewett, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park

Las Vegas 2013
Riviera Hotel
March 13–16, 2013
For Program Proposal Deadline
visit
www.ncte.org/cccc/conv
See You There!!

250

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 250

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC Awards/
Recognition Reception
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom,
Salon D, Second Floor
5:00–6:30 p.m.
Chair: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
At this reception we announce the winners of the 2011 Outstanding Book Award,
The James Berlin Memorial Outstanding Dissertation Award, The Braddock Award,
the Award for best article in TETYC, and the Nell Ann Pickett Service Award. Past
CCCC Chairs, distinguished guests, and international participants will be recognized.
A light reception follows. Please take the time to come celebrate with your colleagues.

AWARDS PRESENTATIONS
OUTSTANDING BOOK AWARD
This award is presented to the author(s) or editor(s) of a book making an outstanding
contribution to composition and communication studies. Books are evaluated for
scholarship or research and for applicabilitly to the study and teaching of composition and communication.

Outstanding Book Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Lena Ampadu, Towson University, Baltimore, MD
Mary Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University, San Marcos
Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY
Janice R. Walker, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro

Previous Award Winners
2011 	
2010 	
2009 	
		

Xiaoye You, Writing in the Devil’s Tongue: A History of English Composition in China
David Gold, Rhetoric at the Margins: Revising the History of Writing Instruction in American Colleges, 1873-1947
Charles Bazerman, Handbook of Research on Writing: Society, School, Individual, Text
John M. Duffy, Writing from These Roots: Literacy in a Hmong-American
Community
CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 251

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 251

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2008 	
2007 	
		

Sharon Crowley, Toward a Civil Discourse: Rhetoric and Fundamentalism
Norbert Elliot, On a Scale: A Social History of Writing Assessment in America
Krista Ratcliffe, Rhetorical Listening: Identification, Gender, Whiteness

For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
oba

JAMES BERLIN MEMORIAL OUTSTANDING
DISSERTATION AWARD
Renamed to honor James Berlin, this award recognizes a graduate whose dissertation
improves the educational process through research or scholarly inquiry or adds to the
body of knowledge in composition studies.

Berlin Outstanding Dissertation Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Mary Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Haivan Hoang, University of Massachusetts-Amherst
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Vershawn Ashanti Young, University of Kentucky, Lexington

Previous Award Winners
2011 	 Carolyn J. Fulford, “Writing Across the Curriculum Program Development
as Ideological and Rhetorical Practice”
2010 	 Risa Applegarth, “Other Grounds: Popular Genres and the Rhetoric of Anthropology, 1900-1940”
2009 	 Eric D. Turley, “The Scientific Management of Writing and the Residue of
Reform”
2008 	 Katherine E. Tirabassi, “Revisiting the Current-Traditional Era: Innovations in Writing Instruction at the University of New Hampshire, 19401949”
2007 	 Julie Marie Staggers, “Learning to Love the Bomb: Secrecy and Denial in
the Atomic City, 1943-1961”
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
berlin

THE RICHARD BRADDOCK AWARD
The Richard Braddock Award is presented to the author of the outstanding article
on writing or the teaching of writing in the CCCC journal, College Composition
and Communication, during the year ending December 31 before the annual CCCC

252

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 252

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

spring convention. The award was created to honor the memory of Richard Braddock, University of Iowa. Richard Braddock was an extraordinary person and teacher who touched the lives of many people in ways that this special award established
in his name can only suggest.

Braddock Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Morris Young, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Angela Haas, Illinois State University, Normal
David Holmes, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi

Previous Award Winners:
2011 	 Anne-Marie Pedersen, “Negotiating Cultural Identities through Language:
Academic English in Jordan,” December 2010
2010 	 Shevaun E. Watson, “Good Will Come of This Evil”: Enslaved Teachers
and the Transatlantic Politics of Early Black Literacy,” September 2009
2009 	 Ellen Barton, “Further Contributions from the Ethical Turn in Composition/
Rhetoric: Analyzing Ethics in Interaction,” June 2008
2008 	 Michael Carter, “Ways of Knowing, Doing, and Writing in the Disciplines,”
February 2007
2007 	 A. Suresh Canagarajah, “The Place of World Englishes in Composition:
Pluralization Continued,” June 2006
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
braddock

OUTSTANDING DISSERTATION AWARD IN
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
This award recognizes a dissertation in Technical Communication whose research is
original, makes a contribution to the field, uses a sound methodological approach,
demonstrates awareness of the existing research in the area studied, and demonstrates an overall high quality of writing.

Outstanding Dissertation Award in Technical Communication
Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Robert Johnson, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Fenobia Dallas, Saginaw Valley State University, MI
Jeffrey Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Krista Kennedy, Syracuse University, NY
Carol Lipson, Syracuse University, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 253

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 253

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Previous Award Winners
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008 	
2007 	

Colleen Derkatch
Rebekka Andersen
Jonathan Buehl
Lara Varpio
Natasha Artemeva

For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
techcommdissertation

TECHNICAL and scientific COMMUNICATION
awards
This award recognizes outstanding books and articles in technical and scientific communication in six categories: Best Book, Best Original Collection of Essays, Best
Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research, Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies, Best Article on Philosophy or Theory, and Best
Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum.

Technical and Scientific Communication Awards Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		
		

Bernadette Longo, University of Minnesota, St. Paul
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando
William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Miles Kimball, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Clay Spinuzzi, University of Texas at Austin
Katherine Wills, Indiana University-Purdue University Columbus

Previous Award Winners
2010
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Carol Siri Johnson, The
Language of Work: Technical Communication at Lukens Steel, 1810-1925
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Christina Hass, Written Communication, Special issue on Writing and Medicine,
26(3-4) July-October 2009, 215-396
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Catherine Schryer, Elena Afros, Marcellina Mian, Marlee Spafford, & Lorelei Lingard, “The Trial of the Expert Witness: Negotiating Credibility in Child Abuse Correspondence,” Written Communication, 26(3), July 2009:
215-246
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Christa Teston, “A Grounded Investigation of Genred
Guidelines in Cancer Care Deliberations,” Written Communication, 26(3), July
2009: 320-348
254

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 254

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
S. Scott Graham, “Agency and the Rhetoric of Medicine: Biomedical Brain Scans
and the Ontology of Fibromyalgia,” Technical Communication Quarterly, 18(4), Fall
2009: 376-404
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Rachel Spilka, “Practitioner Research Instruction: A Neglected Curricular Area
in Technical Communication Undergraduate Programs,” Journal of Business and
Technical Communication, 23(2), April 2009: 216-237
2009
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Jason Swarts. Together
with Technology: Writing Review, Enculturation and Technological Mediation. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company, Inc. 2008.
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
No award given.
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: No award given.
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Stuart Blythe, Jeffrey T. Grabill, & Kirk Riley. “Action Research and Wicked Environmental Problems: Exploring Appropriate Roles
for Researchers in Professional Communication,” Journal of Business and Technical
Communication, 22(3), (July 2008): 272-298.
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
Jason Swarts. “Information Technologies as Discursive Agents: Methodological Implications for the Empirical Study of Knowledge Work,” Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 38(4), (2008): 301-329.
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Deanna P. Dannels & Kelly Norris Martin. “Critiquing Critiques: A Genre
Analysis of Feedback Across Novice to Expert Design Studios,” Journal of Business
and Technical Communication, 22(2), (April 2008): 135-158.
2008
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Joseph E. Harmon and Alan
G. Gross. Eds. The Scientific Literature: A Guided Tour. Chicago, IL: University of
Chicago Press, 2007.
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Mark Zachry and Charlotte Thralls. Eds. Communicative Practices in Workplaces
and the Professions: Cultural Perspectives on the Regulation of Discourse and Organizations. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company, Inc., 2007.
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Neal Lerner. “Laboratory Lessons for Writing and Science.” Written Communication. 24:3 (2007), 191-222.
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Gabriella Rundblad. “Impersonal, General, and Social:
The Use of Metonymy Versus Passive Voice in Medical Discourse.” Written Communication. 24:3 (2007), 250-277.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 255

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 255

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
Susan Hagan. “Visual/Verbal Collaboration in Print: Complementary Differences,
Necessary Ties, and an Untapped Rhetorical Opportunity.” Written Communication.
24:1 (2007), 49-83.
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Michael Carter, Miriam Ferzli, and Eric N. Wiebe. “Writing to Learn by Learning to Write in the Disciplines.” Journal of Business and Technical Communication.
21:3 (2007), 278-302.
2007
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: No award granted in this
category.
Best Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication: J. Blake
Scott, Bernadette Longo, and Katherine V. Wills. Eds. Critical Power Tools: Technical Communication and Cultural Studies. SUNY series, Studies in Scientific and
Technical Communication. Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 2006.
Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or Scientific Communication: Barbara Mirel and Nicholas Johnson. “Social Determinants
of Preparing a Cyber-Infrastructure Innovation for Diffusion.” Technical Communication Quarterly. 15:3 (2006), 329-353.
Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or Scientific Communication: Miles A. Kimball. “London Through Rose-Colored Graphics:
Visual Rhetoric and Information Graphic Design in Charles Booth’s Maps of London
Poverty.” Journal of Technical Writing & Communication. 36:4 (2006) 353-381.
Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication: David Kellogg. “Toward a Post-Academic Science Policy: Scientific Communication
and the Collapse of the Mertonian Norms.” International Journal of Communications Law and Policy. 11 (Autumn, 2006), 1-29.
Article on Methods of Teaching Technical or Scientific Communication: Summer Smith Taylor. “Assessment in Client-Based Technical Writing Classes: Evolution of Teacher and Client Standards.” Technical Communication Quarterly. 15:2
(2006), 431-456.
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
techsci

WRITING PROGRAM CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
This award program, established in 2004, honors up to 20 writing programs a year. 
Programs must successfully demonstrate that their program meets the following criteria: it imaginatively addresses the needs and opportunities of its students, instructors, and locale; offers exemplary ongoing professional development for faculty of
all ranks, including adjunct/contingent faculty; treats contingent faculty respectfully,
humanely, and professionally; uses current best practices in the field; uses effective,
ongoing assessment and placement procedures; models diversity and/or serves di-

256

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 256

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

verse communities; has appropriate class size; and has an administrator (chair, director, coordinator, etc.) with academic credentials in writing.

2011–2012 Writing Program Certificate of Excellence Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		
		

Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington
Zandra Jordan, Spelman College, Atlanta, GA
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Leslie Roberts, Oakland Community College, Farmington Hills, MI

Previous Certificate Winners
2010-2011
Binghamton University, State University of New York, First-Year Writing
University of Connecticut, University Writing Center
Wheaton College, Writing Across the Curriculum Program
2009-2010
Louisiana State University, Communication across the Curriculum Program
2008–2009
North Carolina State University, First-Year Writing Program
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Writing Program
Washington State University, Writing Program
2007–2008
The University of Denver, Writing Program
University of Toronto, Scarborough, Writing Centre
2006–2007
Ball State University, Writing Program
Michigan Technological University, Writing Center
Purdue University, Introductory Composition
Swarthmore College, Writing Associates Program
University of Toronto, Office of English Language and Writing Support
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
writingprogramcert

CCCC TRIBAL COLLEGE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP
In March 2003, the Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC)
initiated a new program, the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Program. The Tribal
College Faculty Fellowship offers financial aid to selected faculty members currently

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 257

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 257

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

working at tribally controlled colleges to attend the CCCC Conference.  This year
we will be awarding up to four Tribal College Faculty Fellowships in the amount of
$750 each. With this Fellowship, CCCC hopes to create new opportunities for Tribal
College Faculty members to become involved in CCCC and for CCCC to carry out
its mission of serving as a truly representative national advocate for language and
literacy education. Applicants are asked to submit a letter describing who they are as
teachers and what they teach at their tribal college, what their research interests are,
and what they hope to gain from the experience of attending CCCC (how it could
help in their teaching or research). A selection committee including American Indian
Caucus members reviews applications for the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship.
Fellowships are awarded based on overall quality of the application letter.

Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Regina Clemens Fox, Arizona State University, Tempe
Qwo-Li Driskill, Texas A&M University, College Station
Kimberli Lee, Michigan State University, East Lansing

Previous Award Winners
2011
Eric Jurgens
2010
Christie Cooke
Jennifer Ann Owens
2009
Sara Knight
Ryan Winn
2008
Nathan Jenkins, Haskell Indian Nationals University
2007
Geselle Coe, Tohono O’Odham Community College
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
tribalcollegefellow

258

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 258

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC advancement of knowledge award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances writing studies.

Advancement of Knowledge Committee
Jeffrey Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Shevaun Watson, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire

CCCC research impact award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances the mission of the organization
or the needs of the profession.

Research Impact Committee
Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Huiling Ding, Clemson University, SC
Krista Ratcliffe, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI

CCCC luiz antonio marcuschi travel awards
Established in 2011, this award provides two $1,000 travel reimbursement awards to
scholars from Mexico, Central, or South America who have papers accepted for presentation at the CCCC Convention. Selection of the winners is made by the CCCC
Program Chair and a panel of judges selected from the Stage II program reviewers.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 259

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 259

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG.1 	 Black Caucus
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second
Floor
	

Chair: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus

FSIG.2 	 Latino Caucus
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second
Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Bobbi Ciriza Houchens, Arroyo Valley High School, San 	
	 Bernardino, CA
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christie, TX
Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge, CA

FSIG.3 	 Asian/Asian American Caucus
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second
Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East
	 Lansing
Stuart Ching, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA

FSIG.4 	 American Indian Caucus
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second
Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, Lansing

FSIG.5 	 Queer Caucus
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second
Floor
	

Chair: Martha Marinara, University of Central Florida, Orlando

260

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 260

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.6 	 Meeting of the International Network of WritingAcross-the-Curriculum Programs
	
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second
Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis
Pamela Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA

FSIG.7 	 Independent Writing Units
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby
Level
	
	

Co-Chairs: Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Mesa
Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI

FSIG.8 	 Progressive Approaches to Grammar, Punctuation, and
Usage
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby
Level
	

Chair: Joseph Salvatore, The New School, New York, NY

FSIG.9 	 Teaching Adult Writers in Diverse Settings
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby
Level
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota,
	 Minneapolis
Christine Photinos, National University, San Diego, CA
Karen Uehling, Boise State University, ID

FSIG.10 	 Labor Caucus SIG Meeting
	
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby
Level
	
	
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Seth Kahn, West Chester University, PA
Stephen Fox, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis
Jennifer Wingard, University of Houston, TX
Heidi Ann Stevenson, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Kevin Mahoney, Kutztown University, PA
Cathy M. Spidell, University of Akron, OH

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 261

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 261

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.11 	 Rhetoric and Christian Tradition Symposium
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2
	

Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

FSIG.12 	 Writing with Current, Former, and Future Members of
the Military
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Sandra Jang, USMAPS, Fort Monmouth, NJ
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Carla Maroudas, Mt. San Jacinto Community College, San Diego, CA

FSIG.14 	 Teaching Writing in Interdisciplinary Classrooms and
Learning Communities
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1
	

Chair: Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI

FSIG.15 	 Best Practices for Online Writing Instruction:
Professional Legitimacy in OWI
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1
	

Chair: Beth Hewett, University of Maryland, University College, Adelphi

FSIG.16 	 Graduate Student Forum Special Interest Group
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Gabriela Rios, Texas A&M University, College Station
Casie Cobos, Texas A&M University, College Station
Kristen Moore, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Cristyn L. Elder, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

FSIG.17 	 Studio Special Interest Group
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1
	

Chair: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC

FSIG.18 	 Creative Writing Study and Artistic Practice
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Ben Ristow, University of Arizona, Tucson
Benjamin Miller, The City University of New York-Graduate Center, NY

262

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 262

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.19 	 Science and Writing
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University, Columbus
William FitzGerald, Rutgers University at Camden, NJ

FSIG.20 	 English Education/Composition Connections
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 106, Level 1
	
	

Co-Chairs: Mark Letcher, Purdue University-Calumet, Hammond, IN
Elizabeth Brockman, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant

FSIG.21 	 Assessment, Training, and Dialogues: An Examination
of ESL Graduate Student Culture, Writing, and Writing
Center Objective
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2
	
	

Co-Chairs: Jo Doran, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Jule Wallis, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI

FSIG.22 	 Favorite Passages: Go-To Creative Nonfiction
Readings in the Composition Classroom
	
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2
	
	

Co-Chairs: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadel	 phia, PA
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 263

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 263

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Friday, 6:30 p.m.–1:00 a.m.

Friday Evening Events
The Caucus after the Caucus: Coalition Building across
the Caucuses
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
7:30-8:30 p.m.
TYCA Talks
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
The Twentieth Annual Poetry Forum
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
7:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.
The Poetry Forum: The Twenty-Fifth Annual Exultation of Larks will be held on
Friday, 7:30–10:30 p.m. This forum has become a valued annual gathering for CCCC
poets and friends of poetry. Those who write should bring original material to read
for about five minutes. Those who enjoy the company of poets should come to listen, respond and share in the pleasures of the occasion. Poet readers should contact
Mary Minock (Language and Literature Department, Madonna University, 36600
Schoo0lcraft Rd., Livonia, MI 48150, mminock@madonna.edu) if they have questions.

AA
Renaissance Hotel, Westmoreland Room, Lobby Level
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
ALANON
Renaissance Hotel, Kingsbury Room, Lobby Level
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.

264

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 264

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–2:30 p.m.

Saturday, March 24
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–2:30 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
Exhibits, 10:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m.
America’s Convention Center, Exhibit Hall 1, Level 1
TWO-YEAR COLLEGE SATURDAY PROGRAM
SPONSORED BY THE TWO-YEAR COLLEGE ENGLISH
ASSOCIATION (TYCA)
TWO-YEAR COLLEGE ENGLISH ASSOCIATION ANNUAL
BREAKFAST AND AWARDS
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon D, Second Floor
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.
Admission is by advance registration only.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 265

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 265

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

tyca fame award
The awards acknowledge the best mention of the two-year college appearing in any
media during the previous year. The award gives credit to those reporters, writers,
filmmakers, and others who seek out and publicize exemplary students, faculty, programs, campuses, and/or recognize the two-year college system.
	 Winners are to be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

Fame Award Committee
Chair:	 Sterling Warner, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Michael Dinielli, Chaffey College, Alta Loma, CA
Bruce Henderson, Fullerton College, CA

Previous Award Winners
2011 	
2010 	
2009 	
	
2008 	
2007	
	
2006	
2005	
2004	
2003	
2002	
2001	

Zach Miners, US News and World Report, October 7, 2010, “Obama Touts
Community Colleges”
Scott Jaschik, Inside Higher Ed, March 18, 2009, “College College Surge”
Dr. Jill Biden, Northern Virginia Community College, VA
Honorable Mention: Peter Schworm, Boston Globe, January 21, 2009,
“Brush with Destitution Fuels a Desire to Succeed”
Gail Mellow, President, LaGuardia Community College, NY
William D. Green, CEO, Accenture
First Runner-Up: Matthew Santori, The Baltimore Examiner
Dr. Betty Young, President, Northwest State Community College, Archbold, OH
Clint Eastwood, Million Dollar Baby
Dr. Tahita Fulkerson, Fort Worth Star Telegram
Tracey Wong Briggs of USA Today
Willard Scott of the NBC Today Show
Black Issues in Higher Education, August 17, 2000, “Special Report: Community Colleges: Storied Success”

*At the 2011 CCCC Conference in Atlanta, a motion was brought before the TYCA
Executive Committee: That the Public Image Committee focus exclusively on positive images of two-year colleges and the committee revise the name of the Award to
represent this change in mission. The motion carried.

266

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 266

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

diana hacker tyca outstanding programs
in english awards for two-year teachers
and colleges
The awards are given annually to honor two-year teachers and their colleges for exemplary programs that enhance students’ language learning, helping them to achieve
their college, career, and personal goals.
	 Winners are to be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

Outstanding Programs Award Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		
		

Louise Bown, Salt Lake City Community College, UT
Jeff Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ
Joel Henderson, Chattanooga State Tech Community College, TN
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Lois Power, Fullerton College, CA

Previous Award Winners
2011	
		
		
		
		

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Reaching Across Borders
“The College-Level Writing Collaborative-Navigating the Gap”
Johnson & Wales University, Providence, RI
Honorable Mention
“Reaching Across Borders: The Benefits of Blending Full and Part-Time
Faculty”
Madison Area Technical College, WI
Honorable Mention
“Service Learning and Learning Service: Technical Writing Classes Partner
with Farmers’ Markets
Zane State College, Zanesville, OH)
Fostering Student Success
“Step UP: Improving Student Success and Retention and Transforming the
College Culture”
Howard Community College, Columbia, MD
Honorable Mention
“Basic Writing/English 100”
Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA)
Enhancing Developmental Education
Honorable Mention
“Rural Comp”
Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College, Tifton, GA

2010	
		

Enhancing Developmental Education
“The Accelerated Learning Program (ALP)”

		
		
		
		
		
		

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 267

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 267

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

		
		
		
		

Community College of Baltimore County, Baltimore, Maryland
Honorable Mention
“Portfolio Assessment and Mentoring Program”
Camden County College, Blackwood, New Jersey

2009	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 1: Reaching Across Borders
“Writing in the Disciplines”
Montgomery College, Takoma Park, MD
“SLCC Community Writing Center”
Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT
Honorable Mention
“Ready or Not Writing”
Minnesota State Community and Technical College, Fergus Falls, MN
Special Acknowledgment/Most Unique Initiative
“Intercultural Literacy through Reflection: Rural Students Meet the Urban
Experience”
State Fair Community College, Sedalia, MO

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 2: Fostering Student Success
“ESSAI The College of DuPage Anthology of Academic Writing Across the
Curriculum”
College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL
Honorable Mention
“Building Community Online: Discussion Boards in a Two-Year College
Online Writing Center”
Century College, White Bear Lake, MN

		

Category 3: Enhancing Developmental Education
“Serving the Literacy Goals of At-Risk Students through an Integrated
Approach to Faculty Development and Course Design”
Kingsborough Community College, Brooklyn, NY
Honorable Mention
“Bursting the Bubble: Using Learning Communities to Create Authentic
College Learning and Instruction”
Front Range Community College, Westminster, CO

		
		

Category 4: Enhancing Literature and Cultural Arts
No Entries

2008 	
		
		
		
		
		

Category 1: Reaching across Borders
“The Arts in Ghana with Service Learning”
The Ohio State University Agricultural Technical Institute, Wooster, OH
Honorable Mention
“Washington Online Writing Lab (WOWL)”
Centralia College, WA

		
		
		

268

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 268

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 2: Fostering Student Success
“YVCC English Department Mid-Program Assessment”
Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Honorable Mention
“Increasing Agency and Collaboration through the Merging of SoTL and
Assessment
University of Wisconsin Colleges, Waukesha, WI

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 3: Enhancing Developmental Education
“Gateway to Success”
Santa Barbara City College, CA
Honorable Mention
“The W.R.I.T.E. Brush-up Course Program”
Nassau Community College, Garden City, NY

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 4: Enhancing Literature and Cultural Arts
“Writing and Literature Program”
Borough of Manhattan Community College, New York, NY
Honorable Mention
“Women’s Literature Read-In”
Lansing Community College, MI

these awards are presented at the cccc
awards/recognition reception on Friday
nell ann pickett service award
Presented by the Two-Year College English Association to an outstanding teacher
whose vision and voice have had a major impact on two-year college professionalism.

Nell Ann Pickett Service Award Committee
Chair:	 Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Louise Bown, Salt Lake Community College, UT

Previous Award Winners
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	
2007	
2006	

Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT
Mike Matthews, Tarrant County College/NW Campus, Fort Worth, TX
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Judith “Jay” Wootten, Kent State University, Salem Campus, Salem, OH
Jody Millward, Santa Barbara City College, CA
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 269

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 269

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

2005	
2004	
2003	
2002	
2001	
2000	
1999	
1998	
1997	
1996	
1995	
1994	
1993	

Georgia Newman, Georgia College & State University, Milledgeville
John Lovas, De Anza College, Cupertino, CA
Frank Madden, SUNY Westchester Community College, Valhalla, NY
Ben Wiley, St. Petersburg College, FL
Lois Powers, Fullerton College, CA
Mark Reynolds, Jefferson Davis Community College, Brewton, AL
Katherine Staples, Austin Community College, TX
Charles Annal, New Hampshire Technical Institute
Paul Bodmer, Bismarck State College, ND
Elisabeth McPherson, Ridgefield, WA
Lynn Quitman Troyka, Queensboro CC, City University of New York
Audrey Roth, Miami Dade Community College, FL
Nell Ann Pickett, Hinds Community College, Raymond, MS

the mark reynolds tetyc best article
award
The quarterly journal Teaching English in the Two-Year College selects each calendar year one article for its Best Article of the Year Award. Selection is based on
excellence in five areas: content, style, development/organization, value to readers,
and overall impression.
	 Jeff Sommers, Editor of TETYC, to present the award.

Best Article Award Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		

Timothy McLaughlin, Bunker Hill Community College, Boston, MA
Justin Jory, University of Colorado, Colorado Springs
Jill Kronstadt, Montgomery College, Germantown, MD
Gregory Shafer, Mott Community College, Flint, MI

Previous Award Winners
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	
2007	
2006	
2005	
2004	
2003	
2002	
2001	
2000	
1999	

Ann Del Principe
Holly Hassel and Joanne Baird Giordano
David Martins
Gregory Shafer
Shir Filler
Joseph Andelora
Laurie Grobman
Jay Simmons and Timothy McLaughlin
Loretta Kasper
Derek Soles
Dana Elder
Richard Raymond
Kay Thurston

270

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 270

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

1998	
1997	
1996	
1995	
1994	
1993	
1992	
1991	
1990	
1989	
1988	
1987	
1986	
1985	
1984	
1983	
1982	

Smokey Wilson
Marilyn J. Valentino
Tom Speer
William S. Robinson
Julia Ferganchick-Neufang
Betty Palmer Nelson
Dana L. Fox
Joseph F. Trimmer
Judith Rae Davis
Fred Standley
Nadine Pearce and Paul Hunter
Richard Raymond
Patricia Callaghan
Sylvia A. Holladay
Marcia H. Edwards
Tim McCracken and W. Allen Ashby
Michael E. Adelstein

Concurrent Sessions Presented by
Two-Year College Faculty
B.32 	
C.26 	
E.24 	
E.26 	
F.21 	
G.39 	
I.09 	
K.13 	
K.15 	
L.28 	

Getting a Job in a Two-Year College
Digital Hemlock: Undermining the Myth of the Socratic Method through
Community College Distance Learning Pedagogical Practices
Writing Across the Curriculum in the Community College: Challenges and
Opportunities
How Small Teacher Communities Foster Effective Teaching and Integrative Learning in the Basic Writing Classroom
Creating Shared Values: Development of Writing Programs at Multi-Campus, Two-Year Institutions
Using Audio Response Methods to Enhance the “Human Touch” of Online
Writing Instruction
Digital Multiplicity: The Global Skills for College Completion Project to
Create a Replicable Model for Success in Basic Writing
What A Web We Weave: TYCA Research Committee Findings Illuminate
Cross-Level, Cross-Disciplinary, and Cross-Institutional Connections (Part
One)
Bridging the Gap: The Effectiveness of a Bridge Course Between Developmental Writing and Freshman Composition
What a Web We Weave: TYCA Research Committee Findings Illuminate
Cross-Level, Cross-Disciplinary, and Cross-Institutional Connections (Part
Two)

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 271

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 271

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

ANNUAL BUSINESS/TOWN MEETING
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom E, Second Floor
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.

All members and newcomers of CCCC are invited to attend and vote at the business
meeting.
CCCC Chair: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
CCCC Associate Chair: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
CCCC Assistant Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
CCCC Immediate Past Chair: Gwendolyn D. Pough, Syracuse University, NY
CCCC Secretary: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
CCCC Executive Secretary/Treasurer: Kent Williamson, NCTE, Urbana, IL
CCCC Parliamentarian: Eric Bateman, San Juan College, Farmington, NM
Established Rules for Conduct of the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 All voting members should be properly identified, and only members in good
standing may vote in the business meeting.
2. 	 A quorum of seventy-five members of CCCC in good standing is required for the
transaction of business in this meeting.
3. 	 Anyone wishing the floor should go to a microphone and give his or her name
and institution when recognized by the chair.
4. 	 If procedural rules are adopted by a majority vote of the members present, a twothirds vote will be required to suspend or amend them.
5. 	 Members may offer for discussion and action a sense-of-the-house motion, as
specified in item 4 in the “Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions.” Such
motions, if passed, will be broadcast to the members, not as an official CCCC
statement, but as the wish of the majority of the members voting at the Annual
Business Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or another appropriate CCCC body, and can become the substance of a resolution at the next annual convention.
6. 	 Sturgis’s Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure applies on all questions of
procedure and parliamentary law not specified in the Constitution, Bylaws, or
other rules adopted by CCCC.
7. 	 The Parliamentarian interprets the rules on parliamentary procedures.
8. 	 A secret ballot will be ordered by a motion to vote by secret ballot and an affirmative vote of at least ten members.
Procedural Rules Proposed for Adoption at the Annual Business Meeting
In discussion of resolutions and all other items of business except sense-of the-house
motions:
a. 	 Three minutes will be allowed for each speaker each time.
b. 	 No one may speak a second time on a subject until all who wish to speak have
been heard.
272

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 272

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

c. 	 The presiding officer will attempt to provide a balance in recognizing pro and
con speakers. If there are no speakers opposing a motion under consideration, the
chair may ask the house to move immediately to a vote in order to expedite the
business.
d. 	 Discussion will be limited to no more than fifteen minutes (not including discussion of amendments) on any main motion or resolution; this time may be
extended in ten-minute increments by consent of the body.
e. 	 Discussion of an amendment to a motion or resolution will be limited to no more
than ten minutes; this time may be extended in six-minute increments by consent
of the body.
f. 	 Amendments to amendments will not be accepted, in order to avoid confusion.
In discussion of sense-of-the-house motions:
a. 	 To be considered for deliberation, a sense-of-the-house motion must be prepared
in writing, must not exceed 50 words, and must be submitted to the chair in three
copies before the call for the adoption of the agenda at the beginning of the business meeting. (Brief prefatory statements in explanation of the motion are not
part of the motion and need not be submitted in writing.)
b. 	 A sense-of-the-house motion may not be amended, except for editorial changes
acceptable to the mover.
c.	 Speakers on sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to two minutes each,
except by dispensation of the chair.
d. 	 Discussion of sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to ten minutes, except
by dispensation of the chair.
Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions at the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 A call for resolutions will appear in the February issue of College Composition
and Communication. Proposed resolutions received by the chair of the Resolutions Committee two weeks before the conference require the signature of
only five conference members; however, additional signatures are welcome as a
means of indicating the base of support for the resolution.
2.	 The function of the Resolutions Committee is to review all resolutions presented
and to prepare resolutions of its own in areas in which it or the Executive Committee believes conference action is needed. Special attention will be given to
including areas covered in sense-of-the-house motions passed at the last Annual
Business Meeting. In reviewing resolutions, the Resolutions Committee is responsible for combining all resolutions that duplicate one another in substance
and for editing all resolutions.
The Resolutions Committee will report all properly submitted resolutions to the
Annual Business Meeting with a recommendation for action.
	 Resolutions that call for conference action in the areas in which the CCCC Constitution assigns authority to the officers or the Executive Committee will be clearly
labeled as advisory to the officers or the Executive Committee.

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 273

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 273

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

	 Resolutions of appreciation may be prepared by the CCCC officers and may be
presented by the Resolutions Committee.
	 The Resolutions Committee will hold an open meeting during the Special Interest
Group time period to clarify and discuss these resolutions with concerned conference members. It is especially urgent that the authors of resolutions or their delegates come to this meeting. Although no new resolutions may be added at this time,
members suggesting additional resolutions will be informed that they may introduce
sense-of-the-house motions at the Annual Business Meeting in accordance with the
rule given in item 4 below. The Resolutions Committee will also have a closed meeting after the open meeting to make such editorial and substantive changes as the
deliberations of the open meeting may suggest.
3. 	 As necessary, resolutions will be retyped so that complex changes will be incorporated into the copies of the resolutions distributed at the Annual Business
Meeting.
		 During the report of the Resolutions Committee at the Annual Business Meeting, one member of the Committee will read the “resolved” portion of each resolution and move its adoption. Adoption will require only a simple majority of
members present. Action will be taken on each resolution before the next resolution is presented.
		 The CCCC officers at their post-convention session will determine the dissemination of, and the action to be taken on, all resolutions adopted.
4. 	 Members may offer sense-of-the-house motions for discussion and action. Such
motions, if passed, will be announced to CCCC members, not as official CCCC
statements, but as the will of the majority of members at the Annual Business
Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or by another appropriate CCCC body, as well as become the substance
of a resolution at the next annual convention. In order to be considered, sense-ofthe-house motions of no more than 50 words must be presented in writing (three
copies) to the chair of the Annual Business Meeting before the adoption of the
agenda.

TYCA Executive Committee Meeting
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 7, Lobby Level
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.

274

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 274

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

L Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
Featured Session

Gateways: Long-Time C’s Researchers Look Backward
and Forward
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
This panel will focus on the reflections of established
researchers as they look back at their earlier work and
ahead to research that now seems most compelling. Four
scholars who have been contributing to the 4Cs community for decades will examine previous work in terms of
topics that are now of vital concern to the field such as
knowledge construction in the body, class, gender and
genre relationships, disability studies, internationalism,
the theory and practice of new media and new literacies,
and ethics. Collectively, the four papers will provide a
Wendy Hesford
brief situated history of rhetoric and composition and
result in a productive discussion with attendees many of whom will no doubt
have entered the field considerably later.
Chair:
Joyce Middleton
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Speakers:
Wendy Hesford
Indiana University, Bloomington, “Human Rights and Humanities Research”
Lynn Bloom
University of Connecticut, Storrs, “Roads Taken: Trajectories of a Research
Career”

Lynn Bloom

Elizabeth Flynn

Lisa Ede

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 275

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 275

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Elizabeth Flynn
Michigan Technological University, Houghton, “Toward Transnationalism:
Reflections on a Researching Life”
Lisa Ede
Oregon State University, Corvalis, “How to Capture a Moving Target: One
Scholar’s Journey”

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.01 	 Composing the Community Chorus: The Intersection of
Rhetoric, Technical Writing, and Vocal Arts
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Sally Crisp, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Bevan Keating, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “Legato,
Allegro, Con Brio: The Conductor as Technical Communicator”
Kathy Oliverio, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “Music Made Visible:
The Composition of Concert Posters and Program Notes”
Karen Kuralt, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “Community Chorus
2.0: Can Digital Rhetoric Improve Choral Communication?”
Theory

L.02 	 Our Actions Are “Our” Own: Rhetorical Agency as
Emergent, Enacted, and Embodied
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Dennis Lynch, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee
Speakers: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono, “The Genre-System and
Its Agent: Taking Up Cooper’s Invitation to Rethink Agency as Embodied Process”
Andrew Urban, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, “Emergent Agency
and Critical PedagogyJennifer Kontny, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, “Recognizing the Roots of Rhetorical Agency: Considering
Conventional, Inventional, and Mediational Forms of Social Access”
Respondent: Marilyn Cooper, Michigan Technical University, Houghton
Creative Writing

L.03 	 The Work of Creative Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: Mary Ann Cain, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne
Speakers: Stephanie Vanderslice, University of Central Arkansas, Conway,
“Reimagining the Work of Creative Writing in the 21st Century”

276

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 276

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Mary Ann Cain, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne, “Agency
and Public Space: Creative Writing as Rhetorical Action”
Patrick Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Critical Pedagogy in the
Creative Writing Classroom”
Dianne Donnelly, University of South Florida, Tampa, “International Gateways: The Relation of Creative Writing to Knowledge”
Information Technologies

L.04 	 Privacy, Rhetoric, and Composition: Addressing the
Public/Private Distinction in Digital Environments
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Rosa Eberly, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Andrew Pilsch, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, “Becoming Object: Facebook, Life Writing, and Tool-Being”
Caitlan Spronk, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN, “Data Mining, Information Aggregation, and the Public/Private Composing Subject”
Michael J. Faris, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
“Facebook’s Privacy Policy and Settings”
Alexandria Lockett, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
“Facing the Corner: Digital Leaks and Teacher Reputation”
Institutional and Professional

L.05 	 Forming Future Basic Writing Professionals: Reports on
Graduate-Level BW Teacher Preparation Projects from
Alaska, Idaho, and New York
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: Karen Uehling, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Sarah Kirk, University of Alaska, Anchorage, “Developing a Flexible Graduate Course in Teaching Basic Writing for Multiple Audiences in
a Complex and Dynamic University Setting”
Karen Uehling, Boise State University, ID, “Online Graduate Course in
Teaching Basic Writing with Four Weekend Workshops”
Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, NY, “Developing a Basic Writing Teaching Practicum: Benefits to Graduate Students, GED Courses,
and One MA Program”
Viktoriia Dudar, City College of New York, NY, “Developing a Basic Writing Teaching Practicum: Benefits to Graduate Students, GED Courses,
and One MA Program”
Wynne Ferdinand, LaGuardia Community College, Long Island City, NY,
“Developing a Basic Writing Teaching Practicum: Benefits to Graduate
Students, GED Courses, and One MA Program”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 277

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 277

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

L.06 	 Writing Instruction at 101 4-Year Colleges and
Universities: A View of the Field
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Norbert Elliot, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark
Speakers: Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University, NJ
Melinda Knight, Montclair State University, NJ
Respondents: John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington
Edward White, The University of Arizona, Tucson
Institutional and Professional

L.07	 At A Crossroads: Remediation, Reform, and the Public
Urban University
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Amy Wan, Queens College/CUNY, Flushing
Speakers: Connie Kendall Theado, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Defamiliarizing the Terrain: Basic Writing and the Restructuring of Higher
Education”
Amy Wan, Queens College/CUNY, Flushing, “Who is the Public at the
Public University? Navigating Access to Literacy at Urban Institutions”
Kory Ching, San Francisco State University, CA, “The Composition MA at
the Crossroads of Access and Equity in Higher Education”
Writing Programs

L.08 	 Still Trying to Break Our Bonds: Lessons from an Ongoing
Struggle for Writing Program Independence
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2
Chair: Beth Carroll, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
Speakers: Beth Carroll, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
Kim Gunter, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
Georgia Rhoades, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
History

L.09 	 In the Mix: Multimodal Rhetorics
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Katrina Dunbare, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Anne Wheeler, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Fragmenting Ideologies: Kenneth Burke’s Construction of a (Modernist) Marxist
Rhetoric”
Danielle Koupf, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “(Re)Arrangement as Composition: Remix in the Nineteenth and Twenty-First Centuries”
Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia University, New York, NY, “The Public Arts: A
History of Multimodal Composition Instruction”

278

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 278

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Academic Writing

L.10 	 Pedagogies to Promote Deep and Critical Thinking:
Feminist Freewriting, Problem-Based Learning, and
WAC/WID
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Florice Richardson, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Rita Kumar, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Problem-Based
Learning: Transitioning Students from Classroom to Multiple Writing
Contexts”
Brenda Refaei, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Problem-Based Learning:
Transitioning Students from Classroom to Multiple Writing Contexts”
Andrew Karr, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Thinking Past Critical
Thinking: Writing, Thinking, and the Communication Requirement”
Information Technologies

L.11 	 Composition by Controller: Gaming Environments as
Gateways to New Discursive Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: M. Melissa Elston, Texas A&M University, College Station, “Red
Dead Revisions: Using the Digital Western to Craft an Alternative Frontier Narrative”
Christina V. Cedillo-Tootalian, Northeastern State University, Broken Arrow,
OK, “Rhetoric, Writing . . . Redemption?: Interpreting Race and Gender
in/through Dante’s Inferno”
Shawn Moore, Texas A&M University, College Station, “What the Zombie
Apocalypse Can Teach Students about Ethical Practices in Technical
Communication”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.12 	 Taking Up Empowerment: Engaging Resistance,
Delinquency, and Trauma
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Christine Photinos, National University, San Diego, CA
Speakers: Lauren Kopec, St.John’s University, Queens, NY, “Composition
and Keith Gilyard: Collective Trauma and Prophetic Pragmatism”
Cynthia Urbanski, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, “Negotiating
Discourses: Producing Power and Delinquency in Writing Instruction”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 279

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 279

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.13 	 Anti-Racist Activism and the Teaching of Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Wrestling
with Angels: An Introduction to Anti-Racism for the Writing Classroom”
Kelly Meyer, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Anti-Racist Education for
Pre-Service and New Teachers”
Jessica Rivera, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Narrative Pedagogy and
the Work of Anti-Racism”
Jody Ludlow, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “Useful Conflict: Emotional Struggle and Transformative Potential in Anti-Racist Pedagogy”
Bobbi Olson, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Race and the Multilingual
Classroom: Anti-Racism and Teaching English as a Second Language”
Community, Civic and Public

L.14 	 Writing beyond Publics
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: James Stanfill, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Speakers: James Stanfill, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Violent
Exile: Why Post-Public Writing Must Be Violent”
Laura Hartmann, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Writing on the
Spectrum: Neurodiversity in the First-Year Writing Classroom”
Michael Dedek, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Legitimizing Publics: Lingua Franca English as a Linguistic Model for a Revised Public
Sphere”
Theory

L.15 	 Equity, Pain, and Resilience in the Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: John McKinnis, Buffalo State University, NY
Speakers: William Macauley, The University of Nevada, Reno, “Seeing the
Gateway Is Believing in Writing: Writing Studios, Mistakes, and Educational Resilience”
Trevor Hoag, The University of Texas at Austin, “Thresholds of Pain: Trauma and Punishment as Gateways to Learning”
Jason Maxwell, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, “Ranciere’s Pedagogy of Equality”

280

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 280

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.16 	 Opening Up the Faculty Lounge: Getting Students to
Think Like Teachers, Getting Teachers to Think Like
Students
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Eliot Blake, Kirkwood Community College, Cedar Rapids, IA
Speakers: Eliot Blake, Kirkwood Community College, Cedar Rapids, IA,
“Playing Inside Baseball in the Classroom: Role-Swapping Assignments
that Help Students Become Compositionists”
Diane Mooney, Florida International University, Miami, “No More Grammar
Gangplank: Facilitating Student-Generated Grammar Guides as a Bridge
to College-level Writing”
Jeffrey David Greene, Southern Polytechnic State University, Marietta, GA,
“Be My Guide: Creating a Multimodal Handbook of the Writing Process”
Institutional and Professional

L.17 	 New Thresholds: Writing and Communication in General
Education
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Martha A. Townsend, University of Missouri, Columbia
Speakers: Gwen Gray Schwartz, University of Mount Union, Alliance, OH
Danielle Cordaro, University of Mount Union, Alliance, OH
Rodney Dick, University of Mount Union, Alliance, OH
David Dedo, Samford University, Birmingham, AL
Judy Artz, Saint Joseph College, West Hartford, CT
Matthew Parfitt, Boston University, MA
Dan Fraizer, Springfield College, MA
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.18 	 Everyone Knows This Is Nowhere: Writing in the Musical
Age
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Jeff Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Jeff Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington, “Useless Archives”
Jenny Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington, “Music without Love,
Writing without Duration”
Geoffrey Sirc, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Towards a Lo-Fi
Composition”
Thomas Rickert, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Grooving with Vinyl: Composition and the Digital Retrograd”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 281

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 281

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

L.19 	 Gateways and Transitions: Exploring Advanced
Composition and Writing Tracks/Majors/Programs
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Co-Chairs: Tina Kazan, Elmhurst College, IL
Catherine Gabor, San Jose State University, CA
Speakers: Wade Mahon, University of Wisconsin–Stevens Point, “The Case
for ‘Intermediate Composition’: Understanding ‘Advanced Composition’ in Light of What Comes Before It”
Jaclyn Wells, University of Southern Indiana, Evansville, “The Gateway to the
English Major: University Engagement and Public Writing in Advanced
Composition”
Kathleen Welch, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Teaching Advanced
Writing: A Portfolio Model”
Academic Writing

L.20 	 Community Action Genres as Gateways to Civic
Engagement: Transitions from Classrooms to
Campuses and Communities
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Matthew Kim, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Matthew Kim, Illinois State University, Normal, “Community Action Genres as Gateways to Civic Engagement: Transitions from Classrooms to Campuses and Communities”
Amy Hicks, Illinois State University, Normal, “EcoComposition as a Gateway to Civic Engagement”
Ryan Clark, Illinois State University, Normal, “Appropriative Language as a
Gateway to Civic Engagement”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.21 	 Rhetorics of Survivance: Challenging Boundaries of
Colonial Thought in Interdisciplinary Texts
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Ayde Enriquez-Loya, Texas A&M University, College Station
Speakers: Kimberly Lee, Northeastern State University, Tahlequah, OK,
“Singing for Continuance: Annie Humphrey and Pura Fe Rhetorics of
Resistance”
Ayde Enriquez-Loya, Texas A&M University, College Station, “Rhetorical
Warfare of Silence and Recovery: Enacting Rhetorics of Survivance in
18th Century Literature”
Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID, “Medical Rhetoric as
Social Order in Late 19th Century Mexico and the United States”

282

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 282

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Stephanie Wheeler, Texas A&M University, College Station, “At the Intersection of Disability Studies and Indigneous Studies: Decolonial Disabled Critiques as Part of Survivance”
Information Technologies

L.22 	 Supporting Student Writers: Digital, Pedagogical, and
Institutional Designs
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Andrew Green, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL
Speakers: Lindsay Sabatino, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, “Online
Writing Centers: A Gateway to Composition Studies”
Suanna H. Davis, Houston Community College, TX, “Ubiquitous Computing: Introducing and Integrating Technology into the Classroom”
Miranda Morley, Purdue University-Calumet, Hammond, IN, “Creating
Digital Gateways to Access Supplemental Online Writing Instruction at
Purdue University-Calumet”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.23 	 How Gateways to Writing Can Unlock the Gates to the
Academy and Professional Success
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: Larry McDoniel, St. Louis Community College-Meramec, MO
Speakers: Kelly Wavering, St. Louis Community College-Meramec, MO,
“Writing About Writing (WAW) and the Basic Writer: Establishing an
Identity”
Shamim Ansari, St. Louis Community College-Meramec, MO, “Gateways
to Globalizing a Composition Course”
Pamela Garvey, St. Louis Community College-Meramec, MO, “Service
Learning: A Gateway to Engagement”
Language

L.24 	 Multilingual Writers and Agency
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Kamila Kinyon, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: Tanita Saenkhum, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Investigating Agency in Multilingual Writers ‘Placement Decisions’: A Case
Study of a Writing Program”
Jin Zhang, California State University, San Bernardino, “Peer Review in
L2 Writing: Its impact on L1 Interference in English Writing of Chinese
Students”
Marino Fernandes, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “English Is Not
a Spectator Sport: Privileged Second Language Learners and the ForProfit ESOL Classroom”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 283

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 283

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

L.25 	 Composing and Collaborating in a Digital World:
Transitioning Spaces to Multiliterate Writing Centers
and Classrooms
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Amy Bertken, University of Colorado, Boulder
Speakers: Amy Bertken, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Redefining
‘Student’ Writing: Collaborative Identities and Digital Spaces”
Alaina Feltenberger, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Subversive Agents
Move to the Center: Collaborating with the Institution to Validate Multiliteracies”
Allison Carr, University of Colorado, Boulder, “Gateways to Collaboration:
Using Social Software as Digital Spaces for Collaboration in the Writing
Center”
Community, Civic and Public

L.26 	 Religions Discourse, Secular Contexts
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Leigh Graziano, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Writing
Peace in a Sea of Fire: How Literate Practices Mediate Personal and
Systemic Change”
Brandy Scalise, University of Kentucky, Lexington, “Learning to Speak
Day Language: Michael Dowd’s Thank God for Evolution and the Contradictions of a Liberal Religious Discourse”
Corey Latta, The University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, “Religion and Representation in the Composition Classroom”
Institutional and Professional

L.27 	 Understanding and Intervening in Institutional Polices
and Practice
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Emani Jerome, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA, “The
Gate before the Gateway: Basic Writing, Educational Policy and the Debate Over College Remediation”
Michelle LaFrance, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, “Institutional
Ethnography as Materialist Framework for Writing Program Research
and the Faculty-Staff Perceptions of Work Project”
Kathleen Jernquist, U. S. Coast Guard Academy, New London, CT, “Major
Voices: Cross-disciplinary Collaborations and Undergraduate Transformations as Writers”

284

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 284

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.28 	 Droopy, Performative, Mediated, Sequestered: Embodied
Gateways toward Interventionist Rhetorics
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Heather Adams, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Heather Adams, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, “Sequestered Bodies and Spaces of Secrecy: Responding to Unwed
Pregnancy”
Shannon Walters, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, “The Muscular
Droopiness of Kenneth Burke: Disability and War in the Writing Classroom”
Jason Barrett-Fox, University of Kansas, Lawrence, “Mae West and the
Rhetoric of Performative Bodies: Complicating Burke’s Agent-Scene
Ratio”
Abby Dubisar, Iowa State University, Ames, “Bodies for Peace: Mediating
Disability and Anti-war Activism”
History

L.29 	 Genres in Transition: Historicizing Women’s Rhetorical
Interventions
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Speakers: Melanie Kill, University of Maryland, College Park, “‘The
World We Experience’: Theorizing Exigence and Community”
Stacey Sheriff, Bridgewater State University, MA, “‘The Requirements of
Southern Journalism’: Genre, Ida B. Wells, and Anti-Racist Journalism”
Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, “Working
Women, Working Genre: Progressive-Era Vocational Writing”
Research

L.30 	 Exploring Community Standards in Science Learning
Projects, Authorship, and Grant Submissions
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Josh Mehler, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Ryan Hoover, St. Edward’s University, Austin, TX, “The Rise of
the E-Grant: Measuring Current Trends in Grant Proposal Technology”
Angela Petit, Idaho State University, Boise, “‘What Is an Author?’ Examining Concepts of Authorship in Professional and Technical Writing”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 285

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 285

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.31 	 Peer Review in Various Contexts
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Rebecca Skinner, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Steven Corbett, Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven, “Disability and Response-Ability: Reciprocal Learning and Caring
in Peer Review and Response Groups”
Timothy Oleksiak, The University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
“Multimodal Peer Review”
Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College, CT, “In Defense of
Peer Evaluation: The Effective Use of Peer Critiques in Community College Basic Writing Courses”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

L.32 	 Innovative Pedagogies: From the Digital to the Integrative
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: Chris Teutsch, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Anita August, Sacred Heart University, Fairfield, CT, “Integrative Learning as a Threshold to Troublesome Knowledge in the Writing
Classroom”
Eric York, Iowa State University, Ames, “The Revolution Will Not Be Theorized: Culture Jamming as Critical Media Pedagogy”
Andrew Virtue, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Moving from Consumer to Producer: Multiliteracies, Technical Writing, and Wikipedia”
Research

L.33 	 Interrogating the Writing Center Tutorial
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level
Chair: Scott Aichinger, University of Nebraska at Omaha, NE
Speakers: Jennifer Kunka, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC, “Successful Passages: Quantitative and Qualitative Research into Tutorials
and Transformative Behaviors of Self-Efficacious Student Writers”
Emily Standridge, University of Texas at Tyler, “Researching the Writing
Tutorial: A Case for ignoring (for a Moment) Everything but the Tutorial
in Front of You”
Scott Chiu, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Writing Centers as
Transparent Windows on Seeing through Gateways for Second Language Writers”

286

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 286

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

L.34 	 Open Working Meeting of the Task Force Working on
Human Subject Regulations
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Karen Lunsford, University of California, Santa Barbara

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 287

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 287

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

M Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Featured Session

Gateways to (No)Where for Those in the Margins:
Race, Gender, and Class in Discourse Communities
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4,
Lobby Level
Discussions on race, gender, and class are often informed by black feminist thought and womanism, as
advocated by bell hooks, Alice Walker, Patricia Hill
Collins, and others, who seek to rectify feminism, with
its emphasis on white middle-class values, and offer a
more complex critique of white privilege often steeped
in racism, classism, and sexism.
Chair:
Sheldon B. Wrice
University of Akron
Speakers:
Akua Duku Anokye
Arizona State University, Tempe, “Forging New Gateways: The Womanist Leadership of St. Louis’ Marian
Oldham”
Lena Ampadu
Towson University, “St. Louis: A Gateway to Inspiration for a Black Woman’s Rhetoric of Empowerment”
Mary Alice Trent
Indiana Wesleyan University, Marion, “Arch-size It!:
Negotiating Race, Privilege, and Identity on HBCU and
CCCU College Campuses”

Akua Duku
Anokye

Lena Ampadu

Mary Alice Trent

288

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 288

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Research

M.01 	 The Things They Carry: Examining the Transfer of Citation
and Research Practices from First-Year Writing Programs
to Graduate Education
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Christiane Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Speakers: Kristi Costello, Binghamton University, NY, “The Long Arm of
Family and Secondary School in College Students’ Researched Writing”
Sara Biggs Chaney, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, “Citation Knowledge and the Challenge of Transfer: Tracing Source Use across a FirstYear Writing Sequence”
Tricia Serviss, Auburn University, AL, “The Relays of Transfer in Graduate
Student Source Use”
Creative Writing

M.02 	 Building Sustainability, Exploring Assessment and
Accountability, and Addressing Institutional Demands
in Writing Programs
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2

Chair: John Hyman, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Lisa Mahle-Grisez, Sinclair Community College, Dayton, OH,
“Assessing Our Rhetorical Gateways: Escaping Constraint and Exploring Possibilities”
Dawn Fels, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, “Taking on the Gatekeepers: How Writing Center Tutors and Students Can Help Our Cause”
Kevin Mahoney, Kutztown University, PA, “Building Sustainably: Adventures in Program Development and Budget Crises”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.03 	 Reimagining Global Gateways: Dialogic Threads in
Transnational Ecologies of Literacy
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Gail Hawisher, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Ligia Mihut, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “From
Communist Manifesto to ‘Manifest Destiny’: Dialogic Literacies of
Romanian Transnationals”
Amber Buck, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Transnational
Figured Worlds: Constructing Identities through Social Network Sites”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 289

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 289

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

History

M.04 	 Nineteenth-Century American Women’s Rhetoric at the
Threshold of Industry and Professionalism
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Carolyn Skinner, Ohio State University, Mansfield
Speakers: Michelle Smith, Whitworth University, Spokane, WA, “Expert
Rhetoric, Ambiguous Authority: Women’s Industrial Labor in Utopian
Communities”
Carolyn Skinner, Ohio State University, Mansfield, “‘Doubling the dose at
the Ballot-box’: Nineteenth-Century American Women Physicians’ Suffrage Rhetoric”
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, City University of New York, NY, “From
the Personal to the Professional: Self-Reliance and the Rhetoric of the
‘Coming Woman’”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.05 	 Writing and Disorder: Making the Transition into the Main
Stream
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Barbara Ashwood-Gegas, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Speakers: Patty Wilde, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “Making the Transition: Writing about Addiction in First-Year Composition
Classrooms”
Lauren DiPaula, Georgia Southwestern State University, Americus, “Understanding Student Writers with Bipolar Disorder”
Victoria Carlson-Casaregola, St, Joseph Institute and St. Louis University,
MO, “In the Deep End of the Mainstream: Teaching College Writing
Students Who Have Communication Disorders”
Community, Civic and Public

M.06 	 Immigration in the Writing Classroom
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, Miami, “Immigration and Race: Can an Education Be Illegal?”“
Andrea Potter, Edgewood College, Madison, WI, “Encouraging Voices of
Diversity: Making Immigration Dialogue both Civic and Civil”
Cloee Cooper, Center for New Community, Chicago, IL, “A Look inside
SB1070: A Student Documentary Film”

290

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 290

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

M.07 	 Computational Rhetoric in Theory and Practice
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Michael Wojcik, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Michael Wojcik, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Estimating Sentiment in Eli: Computing Rhetorical Tone for Writing Review”
William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Measuring
Rhetorical Velocity”
Jim Ridolfo, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Measuring Rhetorical Velocity”
Dean Rehberger, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Beyond Text:
Computational Rhetoric of Objects, Audio, and Images”
Academic Writing

M.08 	 Ruptures, Riots, and Regeneration: The Epistemology of
Bodies in the Gateway
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2
Chair: Glen Southergill, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Joelle Guzman, University of California, Riverside
Ruben Mendoza, University of California, Riverside
Writing Programs

M.09 	 (Re)Structuring Gateways in a Community College:
Using a Title III Grant to Increase Access to
“College-Level” Composition
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Holly Gilman, South Seattle Community College, WA
Speakers: Kit Bean, South Seattle Community College, WA, “Context and
History of Our Composition Courses”
Holly Gilman, South Seattle Community College, WA, “Exploring the
(Empty) Spaces between Mandate and Praxis”
Katie Malcolm, South Seattle Community College, WA, “The Studio Gateway: Critical Literacy and the Design of English 100”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 291

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 291

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.10 	 Evoking and Suppressing Response
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Tara K. Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Dawn Formo, California State University, San Marcos, “Where’s
the Writer in the Response Process?: Examining the Role of the Writer
as Solicitor of Feedback in Response Research and in Composition Textbooks”
Lynne Stallings, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, “Where’s the Writer in
the Response Process?: Examining the Role of the Writer as Solicitor of
Feedback in Response Research and in Composition Textbooks”
Miriam Rowntree, University of North Texas, Denton, “Suppressing Response in Liberating Pedagogy”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.11 	 (in)Visible Gateways to Success for African-American
College Students
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: Desi M. Bradley, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA
Speakers: Amanda Athon Hemmerling, Bowling Green State University,
OH, “Bias and Assimilation in 19th Century African American Home
Readers”
Mark Hankerson, Albany State University, GA, “Common Ground, Common Enemies: The Rift between Progressive Composition Theory and
Traditional African-American Pedagogy”
Vandana Gavaskar, Elizabeth City State University, NC, “Gateways to Pedagogical Success: The Hush Harbors of HBCUs and African American
Rhetorical Histories”
Research

M.12 	 Teaching in Transitions with L2 and Basic Writers
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Jennifer Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ, “Explicit Teaching, Mindful Learning: Writing Knowledge and Skills Transfer of Multilingual Students in First-Year Writing”
Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Teaching in Transition”
Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis, “Transitioning from High
School to College: Explicit Genre Instruction and Second Language
Writing”

292

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 292

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

M.13 	 College Level Thinking and Writing: Multidisciplinary and
Cross-Contextual Perspectives
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Miriam Moore, Lord Fairfax Community College, Middletown, VA
Speakers: Frost McLaughlin, Lord Fairfax Community College, Middletown, VA
Brenda Wiens, Lord Fairfax Community College, Middletown, VA
Margaret Ross, Lord Fairfax Community College, Middletown, VA
Community, Civic and Public

M.14 	 Rhetorical Formation of Public and Private Spheres
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Bonnie D. Devet, College of Charleston, SC
Speakers: Dahliani Reynolds, University of Pittsburgh, PA, “Resourcing
the Past: Composition, Public Engagements, and Project English”
Adrienne Crump, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Marriage, Economics,
and the Rhetoric of Charlotte Perkins Gilman”
Veronica Oliver, Arizona State University, Tempe, “Institutional Gatekeepers and Public Sphere Gateways: Enclave Publics Utilizing Public
Sphere Literacy to Create a Unique Rhetorical Space of Agency”
Theory

M.15 	 Memory, Collection, and the Digital Environment
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Tony Rics, Athens State University, AL
Speakers: Will Dodson, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro,
“Memory in the Disciplines: Rhetorical Memory as Gateway for WID
Theory/Praxis”
Patricia-Suzanne Sullivan, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, “Posthuman, Postprint, Postpublic, Postportfolio? Electronic Portfolios and
Multimodal Composition in Theory and Practice”
Jason Kalin, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, “Curating Copia:
Amplifying Practices of Digital Memory”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 293

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 293

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.16 	 Motivation and Open Gateways: Rethinking Assignment
Design, Drafting, and Feedback Methods
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Melanie Burdick, University of Missouri, Kansas City
Speakers: Kacey Ross, University of Colorado at Denver, “Motivating
Through Writing Assignments: Rethinking the Genre”
Denise Garrett, University of Colorado at Denver, “Response to Student
Writing: Motivating Student Persistence in the Writing Process”
Kristen Belcher, University of Colorado at Denver, “Creative Writing in
Composition: Linking Student Motivation and Authorial Pleasure”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.17 	 Toward a Curriculum in Metaphoric Literacy
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor

Chair: Dominique Zino, City University of New York Graduate Center, NY
Speakers: Dominique Zino, City University of New York Graduate Center,
NY, “Curious Spaces: Metaphors across the Curriculum”
Benjamin Miller, City University of New York Graduate Center, NY, “A
Link to the Writing Process: Metaphor, Writer’s Block, and the Legend
of Zelda”
Andrew Statum, City University of New York Graduate Center, NY, “‘Inventing (in) the University’: Metaphor, Memory, and Discovery”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.18 	 Transforming Writing Assignments in Literature and Fine
Arts: The ePortfolio as Gateway to Multimodal Learning
Experiences
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Chair: Christina McDonald, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington
Speakers: Emily Miller, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “Transitioning
to Multimodal E-Portfolios in a Shakespeare Course: New Gateways to
Learning”
Jenny Ramirez, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, “Torii: Re-envisioning Japanese Visual Arts through Reflective Learning”

294

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 294

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

M.19 	 Tecnologies to Successfully Mediate Online Learning
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: Rebecca McGeehan, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: James Daley, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Bridging
the Divide of the Digital Classroom: Creating a Human Gateway to the
Faceless World of a Course Management System”
Mark Thompson, California State University, Stanislaus, “Successful Online Small Group Conferencing”
Paul Anheier, University of Wisconsin-Stout, “Building Better Online
Gateways: The Role of Screencasts in Hybrid and Distance Online Education”
Kelly Bockmon, California State University, Stanislaus, Turlock, “Successful Online Small Group Conferencing”
Institutional and Professional

M.20 	 Digital Assessment: Local and Institutional
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Vincelette, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Elizabeth Vincelette, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA,
“Screen Capturing Video: Digital Technologies as a Gateway to Better
Writing”
Matthew Oliver, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, “Implementing
e-portfolios as part of the QEP: The Challenges of Training Faculty and
Changing Institutional Perspectives”
Joyce Neff, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, “Does Digital Assessment Enhance Faculty Development?”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.21 	 Waiting at the Threshold: Fandom Studies at the Gate of
Composition Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Tanya Cochran, Union College, Lincoln, NE
Speakers: Amy Lea Clemons, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC,
“Jarrett/Jenkins: Fan Studies and Feminist Pedagogy”
Katherine Tanski, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, “Jarrett/Jenkins:
Fan Studies and Feminist Pedagogy”
Tanya Cochran, Union College, Lincoln, NE, “‘Past the Brink of Tacit Support’: Composition Pedagogy and the Citizen-Fan Activist”
Linda Howell, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, “Crack in the
Classroom: Absurd Fan Productions, Hybridity, and an Ethics of AntiProcess”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 295

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 295

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

M.22 	 Don’t Crash the Gates, Craft Them!: Reconsidering the
Craft of Writing
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Jeff Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: David M. Grant, University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls,
“Thinking/ Drinking: Craft (Beer) and Writing the New Plenitude”
Kristin Prins, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Making Our Futures
by Hand: What Composition Can Learn from Craft Production”
Sergio Figueiredo, Clemson University, SC, “A Composition from Elsewhere: Blanchot, Art, and the Digital Humanities”
History

M.23 	 Gateways for Change: Appearance vs. Reality Topoi in
Protest and Status Quo Rhetoric
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Erin Boade, Raritan Valley Community College, Branchburg, NJ
Speakers: Karen Schiler, Drew University, Madison, NJ, “‘Spinning the
Symbol of Woman Abroad’: Charkha as Symbol of Indian Independence”
Erin Boade, Raritan Valley Community College, Branchburg, NJ, “Wake
Up America: God and Country in Segregationist and Civil Rights Rhetoric”
Carol Lea Clark, University of Texas at El Paso, “Appropriating Mark
Twain’s The Innocents Abroad”
Brad Lucas, Texas Christian University, Ft. Worth, “Revolutionary RaceTraitors: The Discourse of Whiteness and the Weather Underground”
Institutional and Professional

M.24 	 Lessons from History: What WPAs Can Learn from
Writing Program Archival Work
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Holly Bauer, University of California, San Diego
Speakers: Holly Bauer, University of California, San Diego
Carrie Wastal, University of California, San Diego
Pamela Wright, University of California, San Diego
Respondent: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe

296

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 296

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.25 	 Inclusion and Boundaries: Relational Approaches to
Teaching
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Verne Meyer, Write Source & UpWrite Press, Burlington, WI
Speakers: William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA, “Basic Writing
for a Transcultural Era: Using Inclusive Academic Discourses to Democratize the Gateway”
Kathryn Perry, University of Louisville, KY, “Reconsidering ‘Practicality’
in FYC: Towards a Relational Approach to Writing and Learning”
Yvonne Stephens, Kent State University, OH, “A Reciprocal Ethic of Care:
Theorizing the Borderlands between Students’ Classroom and Personal
Lives”
Academic Writing

M.27 	 More than the Average Research Paper Assignment:
Heuristics, FAQ, and Yoga
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level
Chair: Christopher Toth, Grand Valley State University, Allendale
Speakers: Cynthia Jeney, Missouri Western State University, St. Joseph,
“Not Just Frequent But Rich: The 15th Century FAQ Alternative to
Teaching the Research Paper”
Rebecca Ingalls, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, “Asanas of Composition: Opening Gateways into Original Research Writing”
Karen Kaiser Lee, Youngstown State University, OH, “Heuristic or Hermeneutic? What We Ask Students to Do When We Assign the Research
Paper”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 297

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 297

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.28 	 The Chamber of Secrets: Unlocking Gateways to
Intangible Spaces
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Tara Broeckel, Oakland Community College, Orchard Ridge, Farmington Hills, MI
Speakers: Tara Broeckel, Oakland Community College, Orchard Ridge,
Farmington Hills, MI
Suzanne Labadie, Oakland Community College, Royal Oak/Southfield,
Royal Oak, MI, “Inviting Big Brother to FYC: Using Camtasia as a
Gateway to Student Research Practices”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.29 	 Navigating the Transition to Science Writing: Composition
in Learning Communities
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: Susan Pagnac, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Susan Pagnac, Iowa State University, Ames, “A Sense of Place:
Critical Place-Based Composition in Animal Science Learning Communities”
Breanna Kreimeyer, Iowa State University, Ames, “A Sense of Place: Critical Place-Based Composition in Biology Learning Communities”
Jeanine Aune, Iowa State University, Ames, “Exploring the Nature of Science in Composition”
Nicola Clasby-Wilson, Iowa State University, Ames, “Critical Media Literacy in Scientific Learning Communities”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

M.30 	 Rhetoric and Embodied Performance
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level

Chair: Michelle Golden, Georgia Perimeter College, Atlanta
Speakers: M. Tyler Sasser, The University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, “Auditory Rhetoric: Teaching Rhetorical Analysis and Discourse Communities with Music”
David Rogers, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro, NC, “A
Political Pedagogy: Teaching Rhetorical Embodied Performances in the
Composition Classroom”
Lauren Esposito, Stony Brook University, NY, “Not Just Delivery: How
Performance Transforms Invention in Multimodal Contexts”

298

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 298

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

M.31 	 Is the Next America Totally WACked?
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Michelle Cox, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Michael Schwartz, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Lindsey Ives, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Tom Pierce, Central New Mexico Community College, Albuquerque
Annie Leming, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Elizabeth Leahy, University of Arizona, Tucson
Theory

M.32 	 Voice, Space, and Narrative
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 6, Lobby Level
Chair: Nancy A. Wilson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Kenna Barrett, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, “Narrative
Arguments: Sure, They Work in Practice, but Do They Work In Principle?”
Karianne Jones, Truman State University, Kirksville, MO, “The Personal
as Relational: Cultivating the Writing Voice in a First-Year Composition
Classroom”
Rebecca Powell, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, “Writing as a
Spatial Act: A Theoretical and Practical Justification”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.33 	 WACs Guiding WIDs into and out of the Thickets of
Writing Instruction
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor

Chair: Sharon Alusow Hart, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
Speakers: Sharon Alusow Hart, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC,
“First Contact: WACs Consulting WIDs”
Dennis Bohr, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, “Creating a University-Wide Vocabulary: WAC Talks to WAC”
Lori Beth De Hertogh, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, “Creating
a Culture of Consistency: How to Design Transferable Digital Writing
Assignments for WAC and WID Courses”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 299

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 299

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

M.34 	 Open Working Meeting of the Special Interest Group on
International Writing Centers Association
America’s Convention Center, Room 200, Level 2
	

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback
and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Nathalie Singh-Corcoran

300

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 300

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

N Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
Featured Session

Composition’s Roots in English Education
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 4, Lobby Level
In this session, panelists will draw attention to the
discipline of composition studies’ roots in the field of
English education. Focusing attention on mid-20th century English educators and the political circumstances
in which they lived and worked panelists will remind
participants of a foundational chapter in the history
of composition’s inter-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary,
cultural, and political roots.
Chair:
Patricia Lambert
Patricia Lambert Stock
Stock
Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers:
Patricia Lambert Stock
Michigan State University, East Lansing, “The Intertwined Roots of English
Education and Composition Studies”
James T. Zebroski
University of Houston, “Hidden from History: English Education and the Multiple Origins of Contemporary Composition Studies, 1960-2000”
Thomas Newkirk
University of New Hampshire, Durham, “Lunch at the Night Hawk: Jim Kinneavy Joins the English Department”
Sheridan Blau
Teachers College, Columbia University, “Theory for Practice: James Moffett’s
Seminal Contributions to Composition”

James T.
Zebroski

Thomas Newkirk

Sheridan Blau

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 301

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 301

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.01 	 Assessing Reflection
America’s Convention Center, Room 100, Level 1

Chair: Jennifer Richardson, SUNY-Potsdam
Speakers: Kara Poe Alexander, Baylor University, Waco, TX, “Instructor
Assessments of Reflection-in-Presentation in the Literacy Narrative Assignment”
Kathryn Douglas, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Madison, NJ, “When
Students Ask the Questions, the Writing Is Better, and How a Seder Improved My Pedagogy”
Information Technologies

N.02 	 Networked Gateways: Composing Digital Writing
Infrastructures for Transitional Learning and Civic
Engagement
America’s Convention Center, Room 101, Level 1

Chair: Guiseppe Getto, State University of New York-Cortland
Speakers: Guiseppe Getto, State University of New York-Cortland, “Composing ‘Writing in the Digital Age’: Toward an Infrastructural Approach
to Digital Curriculum Design”
Matt Penniman, Michigan State University, East Lansing, “Composing
‘Writing in the Digital Age’: Toward an Infrastructural Approach to Digital Curriculum Design”
Jessica Rivait, Cazenovia College, NY, “Networked Publics: Designing Online Curricula for Students & Non-Classroom Publics”
Nathan Franklin, Clinton Community College, Plattsburgh, NY, “Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about Information Technology, but
Were Afraid to Ask a Community College Instructor: Reflections on the
Politics of Infrastructure-Building”
Research

N.03 	 Analyzing Students’ Experiences with Writing
America’s Convention Center, Room 102, Level 1

Chair: Linjing He, San Bernardino, CA
Speakers: Federico Navarro, University of Buenos Aires and University of
General Sarmiento, Buenos Aires, “Writing Professional Genres in Academic Institutions: The Transition from the ‘Introduction’ to the ‘Executive Summary’ in the Business Plan”
Rik Hunter, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY, “Portals of Participation: Wikis and a Writing-Reader Model of Audience”
Chelsea Redeker Milbourne, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
“Tools of Engagement: What Online Tutoring Can Tell Us about Writers’
Concerns”

302

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 302

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

History

N.04 	 Literacy and Reform
America’s Convention Center, Room 222, Level 2

Chair: Jacquelyn Hoermann, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Henrietta Rix Wood, University of Missouri-Kansas City,
“Friend or Foe of the Indians? Helen W. Ball and the Rhetoric of Native
American Reform”
Emma Howes, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, “From Mountain
Cabins and Tenant Shacks: The Role of Literacy in the Journey from
Farm to Mill in the Carolina Piedmont”
Diana Epelbaum, City University of New York Graduate Center, NY, “The
Reform-Era, Jim Crow, and The Boston Globe: Nostalgias and Ideologies in Home Visitation Rhetorics”
Community, Civic and Public

N.05 	 Gateways to Dissent: Wisconsin Labor Protests, Civic
Engagement, and Translingual Pedagogy
America’s Convention Center, Room 103, Level 1

Chair: Jessica Nastal, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: John Raucci, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Writing
Gateways to Public Dissent: Pedagogy of Public-Academic Praxis”
Patricia Mayes, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “The Dialogic Nature of Dispute: Reconstituting Class Struggle in the Wisconsin Labor
Debate”
Jessica Nastal, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “Creating a More Inclusive ‘Gateway to Access’: Composition as a Site of Resistance to Cultural Assimilation”
Steven Alvarez, City University of New York, NY, “Translation Dissent: On
Language Brokering and Power Relations in First-Generation Immigrant
Families”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.06 	 Composition and Interdisciplinary Practices: Renewing
Possibilities for Intra-Institutional Collaboration
America’s Convention Center, Room 223, Level 2
Chair: Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI
Speakers: Alison Friedow, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Sandra Tarabochia, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Mike Kelly, Champlain College, Burlington, VT

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 303

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 303

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

N.07 	 Facilitating Deep and Ethical Learning with Multimedia
Assignments
America’s Convention Center, Room 224, Level 2

Chair: Sarah Ashlock, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Toby Coley, Bowling Green State University, OH, “Teaching an
Ethical Literacy of Digital Composing: Developing an Interdisciplinary
Curricula?”
Patricia Portanova, University of New Hampshire, Durham, “Gateways
to the Future: (Re)thinking Cognitive Studies in a Media Multitasking
World”
Annie Olson, LeTourneau University, Longview, TX, “Visual Metaphor:
The Key to a Unified Praxis of the Verbal and the Visual”
Writing Programs

N.08 	 “It Gets Better,” or Does It?: Lessons for/from
Anti-Bullying Activism in the WPA Context, or Moving
toward a Theory and Ethics of Combatting Everyday
Harassment
America’s Convention Center, Room 229, Level 2

Chair: Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Harry Denny, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, “From Mean
Girls to Club Houses: When the Best of Intentions Become Cruel”
Joseph Janangelo, Loyola University of Chicago, IL, “Better for Whom?
Better at What?”
Neil Simpkins, University of Wisconsin, Madison, “Crashing Identities:
From Flash Points for Conflict to Social Justice Teachable Moments”
David Riche, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.09 	 The Rhetorical Writing Classroom and Its Challenges
America’s Convention Center, Room 225, Level 2

Chair: Andrew C. Blake, Delaware State University, Dover
Speakers: Crystal Fodrey, University of Arizona, Tucson, “Teaching Advanced Composition as Creative Nonfiction: A Rhetorical Enterprise”
Sarah Bartlett Wilson, Trinity Washington University, Washington, DC,
“No Other Way But Monsters: A Defense of the Sophistic Basic Writing
Classroom”
Ruth Outland, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Walking the Walk
While Talking the Talk: Teaching Composition ‘As’ Rhetoric”

304

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 304

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

History

N.10 	 Women’s Rhetorical Identities
America’s Convention Center, Room 230, Level 2

Chair: Matt Davis, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Mimi Reddicliffe, Lasell College, Newton, MA, “Their Lives;
Their Voices; Their Point of View: The Saturday Evening Girls Newsletter 1913–1917”
Valerie Kinsey, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, “Grassroots in
Zion: An Ecological Approach to the Rhetorical Landscape in the Utah
Suffrage Debate, 1895”
Jane Greer, University of Missouri, Kansas City, “Fashioning a Rhetorical
Identity: Nell Donnelly’s Discursive Seams, 1916–1956”
Community, Civic and Public

N.11 	 Going Digital/Going Public: Gateways to Literacy
America’s Convention Center, Room 231, Level 2

Chair: Lennie Irvin, San Antonio College, TX
Speakers: Ashley Holmes, University of Arizona, Tucson, “The Writing
Program Goes Public: A Comparative Study of Public Pedagogy in
Three Writing Programs”
Brett Oppegaard, Washington State University, Vancouver, “Through a Portal to the Past and Back Again: Experiments in Composition for Mobile
Devices in Historic Spaces”
Pamela Flash, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Writing from
Threshold to Gateway: Faculty Members Map Their Curricula”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.12 	 Composing Borders: Metaphors of Experience
America’s Convention Center, Room 228, Level 2

Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Michael T. MacDonald, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
“Currency and Consequence: Intersections of Literacy Research and
Refugee Studies”
Casey O’Brien Gerhart, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “(De)constructing Home: Shifting Boundaries with Domestic Ideologies”
Danielle Goldstein, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, “‘A Kind of Educational Gold Rush’: Academic Englishes at Home and Abroad”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 305

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 305

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.13 	 Stories about Race, Stories about Class: Using Narrative
to Write the Whole Person
America’s Convention Center, Room 232, Level 2

Chair: Ann Green, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Amy Winans, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA, “Narrating Race, Narrating Emotion”
Wiley Davi, Bentley University, Waltham, MA, “Using Our Stories to Engage in Difference”
Jamey Gallagher, Atlantic Cape Community College, Atlantic City, NJ,
“What about the Voice of the Workers?”
Ann Green, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA, “The Pedagogy of
Cake: Relationship-Based Writing Pedagogy”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.14 	 Writing Personally and Ethnically
America’s Convention Center, Room 240, Level 2

Chair: Steffen Guenzel, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Cara Kozma, High Point University, NC, “Globalization as a
Pedagogical Gateway to Personal Academic Arguments”
Anthony Baker, Tennessee Tech University, Cookeville, “Getting to Meta:
Designing Valuable, Ethical Ways for Students to Think and Write Reflectively”
Dianna Shank, Southwestern Illinois College, Granite City, “‘But I Am Not
Racist’: Using Race as a Writing Prompt in FYC”
Academic Writing

N.15 	 Preparing and Supporting Graduate Student Writers
across the University
America’s Convention Center, Room 226, Level 2

Chair: Terry Myers Zawacki, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, “‘Boot Camp’ as a
Nexus of Graduate Writing Support”
Nigel Caplan, University of Delaware, Newark, “Teaching the Genres of
Graduate Writing”
Anne Zanzucchi, University of California, Merced, “Graduate-Level Peer
Review Design to Support Native and Non-Native Speakers of English”
Respondent: Christine Feak, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

306

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 306

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Theory

N.16 	 Writing Thresholds: The Place-ness of Transfer across
Brain, Body, and World
America’s Convention Center, Room 104, Level 1

Co-Chairs: Clay Walker, Tiffin University at Toledo, OH
Wendy Duprey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Wendy Duprey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Writing
with Connected Investments”
Clay Walker, Tiffin University at Toledo, OH, “Writing on the Threshold:
The Embodied Realities of Discourse for Basic Writers in Online Classrooms”
Andy Engel, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, “Writing with Connected
Investments”
Respondent: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.17 	 The Festering of FYC: Searching for a Multi-disciplinary
Solution for the Issue of Transfer
America’s Convention Center, Room 241, Level 2

Chair: Jeff Fitzgerald, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Speakers: Laura Baker, Western Washington University, Bellingham,
“Fragmented Minds: Fostering Transferability in FYC Students”
Jeff Fitzgerald, Western Washington University, Bellingham, “‘How ‘They’
Do It Doesn’t Matter’: A Cross-Disciplinary Inquiry into Reading Comprehension”
Dylan Medina, Western Washington University, Bellingham, “More Alike
than Different: Knowledge-Making across the Disciplines”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.18 	 Digital Composing and Usability
America’s Convention Center, Room 220, Level 2

Chair: Molly Daniel, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Beth Bensen-Barber, J. Sargeant Reynolds Community College,
Richmond, VA, “Defining Multimodal Composing: Investigating Twenty-first Notions of Composing”
Trent Kays, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, “Locating the Intersections of Expressivist Pedagogy and Digital Writing”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 307

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 307

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Theory

N.20 	 Rhetorics of Affect, Empathy, and Action
America’s Convention Center, Room 242, Level 2

Chair: Jo Doran, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Steven Accardi, Pennsylvania State University-Hazleton, “Exploring Rhetorical Agency in Postmodernity: How One Humanitarian
Group on the U.S./Mexico Border Disrupts the Discourse of the State”
Eric Leake, University of Denver, CO, “‘Should You Encounter’: The Rhetorical Appeal and Rejection of Social Empathy”
Chris Earle, University of Wisconsin-Madison, “Whiteness and the Violence of Rationality: Race, Emotion and Rhetorical Listening”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.21 	 Literacy Gateways: New Openings across National and
Disciplinary Contexts
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon A, Second Floor
Chair: Virginia Guneyli, St. Charles Community College, MO
Speakers: Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson, “New Spaces
for Inquiry: Writing in the Technical College Classroom”
Iswari Pandey, Syracuse University, NY, “Re/Writing Transnational Literacy Gateways”
Susan Thomas, The University of Sydney, Australia, “Creating CrossNational Gateways for Professional Development in Harsh Economic
Times”
George Pullman, Georgia State University, Atlanta, “Creating CrossNational Gateways for Professional Development in Harsh Economic
Times”
Information Technologies

N.22 	 Meaning Making in Visual Rhetorics
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon C, Second Floor

Chair: Jing Pan
Speakers: Logan Bearden, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Historicizing Multimodal Meaning Making”
Christopher Carter, University of Oklahoma, Norman, “Keeping Watch:
The Diachronic Rhetoric of Documentary Photographs”

308

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 308

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Creative Writing

N.23 	 Tentative Collaborators: Creative Writing’s Resistance
toward a Dialogic Model
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon F, Second Floor

Chair:
Speakers: Tessa Mellas, University of Cincinnati, OH
Heather Hamilton, University of Cincinnati, OH, “The Myth of the SingleAuthor Genius”
Eric Bliman, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Collaboration as Performance”
Becky Adnot Haynes, University of Cincinnati, OH, “Illuminating Process in
the CW classroom: Alternate Models”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.24 	 Academic Honesty: Truth and Pedagogical Response
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon G, Second Floor
Chair: Samantha Sturman, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Heather Lindenman, University of Maryland, College Park,
“Spoken Assemblage: Remixing Voices, Remixing Truths”
Danielle Hinrichs, Metropolitan State University, Saint Paul, MN, “Pedagogical Responses to the Citation Project”
Debra Knutson, Shawnee State University, Portsmouth, OH, “A Tale of
Two Citers: Students’ Attitudes towards Academic Honesty”
Research

N.25 	 Ethics and Assessment in New Media Work
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon H, Second Floor

Chair: Beth Griffiths, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Kathleen Baldwin, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, “Manifest Destiny: Assessing New Media Texts in the FYC”
Elizabeth Brewer, The Ohio State University, Columbus, “The Ethics of
Lurking Online: Methodologies for Researching Digital Communities”
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, “Gateways to Writing Assessment: Transitioning to Multimedia Technologies
for Teacher Commentary”

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 309

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 309

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.26 	 Voice and Writers’ Development
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 1, Lobby Level
Chair: Wendy Grosskopf, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Speakers: Richard Jewell, Inver Hills College/Minnesota State College and
University, Inver Grove Heights, MN, “Cocoon and Butterfly: Stages of
the College Writer”
Krystia Nora, California University of Pennsylvania, “‘Voice in Writing Is
. . .’: How Discussing Voice Definitions Can Be a Gateway to Composition Theory in the Basic Writing Classroom”
Mark Brantner, National University of Singapore, “Inventing Stylized Voices”
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.27 	 Transnational Writing Programs
America’s Convention Center, Room 227, Level 2

Chair: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY
Speakers: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, “International Branch Campuses in the Balkans: Croatia and Kosovo”
Krystyna Golkowska, Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar, Doha, “The
First-Year Writing Seminar Program at a U.S.-Based Medical College in
the United Arab Emirates: Meeting the Standards of the Main Campus”
Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, “Administering a Writing Program on Island Time: The Bahamas”
Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, “Developing Writing Programs for U.S.-Mexican Border Writers”
Christine Alfano, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, “Intercultural Encounters: Connecting Students Across Five Continents”
Alyssa O’Brien, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, “Intercultural Encounters: Connecting Students Across Five Continents”
Language

N.28 	 Language Loss and Language Recovery on U.S. College
Campuses
America’s Convention Center, Room 105, Level 1

Chair: Kate Vieira, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Evan Munch, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “‘The
Lugan House’: A Language Haven on a College Campus”
Avani Chhaya, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “The Biliteracy
Gap: Home Languages in the Margins”
Jacqui Batts, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Code-Switching: The High Stakes of Linguistic Choices”

310

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 310

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Tim Bulster, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Monolingualist
Consequences of Pre-service English Teachers’ Perceptions of Correctness”
Stephanie Larson, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Gateways
to Language Recovery in the Composition Classroom”
Creative Writing

N.29 	 Life-in-Context in First-Year Writing: Creative Nonfiction,
Critically Thought and Taught
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 3, Lobby Level
Chair: Nancy Dessommes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Phyllis Dallas, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “Gateway to Academic Prose through Creative Nonfiction”
Mary Marwitz, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “Research, Creative Nonfiction, and the Elastic Memoir”
Laura Milner, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, “Stories and Inquiry Made Concrete”
Institutional and Professional

N.30 	 Managing Change in Writing Programs
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 5, Lobby Level

Chair: Rosemary Adang, Highline Community College, Des Moines, WA
Speakers: Missy Nieveen Phegley, Southeast Missouri State University,
Cape Girardeau, “First-Year Composition and Course Redesign: Gateways for the Coexistence of Competing Interests”
Nicole Khoury, Arizona State University, Tempe, “When Silence Speaks: A
‘Local’ Composition Course Reader”
Emily Donnelli, Park University, Parkville, MO, “Context Is All: Online
Writing Instruction and the Changing Role of the Writing Program Administrator”
Teaching Writing and Rhetoric

N.31 	 Using Internet Technologies in the Classroom as New
Entryways to Composition
Renaissance Hotel, Majestic Ballroom, Salon B, Second Floor
Chair:
Speakers: Cindy Tekobbe, Arizona State University, Tempe
Emily Hooper, Arizona State University, Tempe
Nicole Pfannenstiel, Arizona State University, Tempe

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 311

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 311

2/1/12 12:23 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Research

N.32 	 New Inquiries into Writing Research Traditions
America’s Convention Center, Room 221, Level 2

Chair: Christopher Harris, California State University, Los Angeles
Speakers: Jennifer O’Malley, Florida State University, Tallahassee, “Mapping the Extracurriculum: Virtual Spaces as the New ‘Kitchen Table’ of
Composition”
Mark Sutton, Kean University, Union, NJ, “The Influence of the Research
Network Forum on Composition/Rhetoric Scholarship”
Laura Brandenburg, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, “Testing the Recognition and Perception of Errors in Context”
Academic Writing

N.33 	 There’s Nothing Basic about Basic Writing
Renaissance Hotel, Landmark Ballroom, Salon 2, Lobby Level

Chair: Rochelle Rodrigo, Mesa Community College, AZ
Speakers: Elaine Jolayemi, Glendale College, AZ, “Who Are Basic Writers?”
Carla Maroudas, Mt. San Jacinto Community College, CA, “Who Are Basic
Writers?”
Ilene Rubenstein, College of the Desert, Palm Desert, CA, “Academic
Skills/Writing Centers”
Amy Edwards Patterson, Moraine Park Technical College, Fond du Lac, WI,
“Teaching with Technology”
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College-CUNY, Long Island City,
“Teaching with Technology”
Leigh Jonaitis, Bergen Community College, Paramus, NJ, “Teacher Preparation and Professional Development”
Marisa Klages, LaGuardia Community College-CUNY, Long Island City,
“Teacher Preparation and Professional Development”
Debra Berry, College of Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, “Student Placement”
Kelly Keane, Bergen Community College, Paramus, NJ, “Day-to-Day Life in
the Classroom”

312

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 312

2/1/12 12:23 PM

CCCC Past Chairs
1949 John C. Gerber*
1950 John C. Gerber*
1951 George S. Wykoff*
1952 Harold B. Allen*
1953 Karl W. Dykema*
1954 T. A. Barnhart*
1955 Jerome W. Archer
1956 Irwin Griggs*
1957 Francis Shoemaker
1958 Robert E. Tuttle
1959 Albert R. Kitzhaber
1960 Glen Leggett*
1961 Erwin R. Steinberg
1962 Francis E. Bowman
1963 Priscilla Tyler*
1964 Robert M. Gorrell
1965 Richard S. Beal*
1966 Gordon Wilson*
1967 Richard Braddock*
1968 Dudley Bailey*
1969 Wallace W. Douglas*
1970 Ronald E. Freeman*
1971 Edward P. J. Corbett*
1972 Elisabeth McPherson*
1973 James D. Barry*
1974 Richard L. Larson*
1975 Lionel R. Sharp
1976 Marianna W. Davis
1977 Richard Lloyd-Jones
1978 Vivian I. Davis
1979 William F. Irmscher
1980 Frank D’Angelo

1981 Lynn Quitman Troyka
1982 James Lee Hill
1983 Donald C. Stewart*
1984 Rosentene B. Purnell
1985 Maxine Hairston*
1986 Lee Odell
1987 Miriam T. Chaplin
1988 David Bartholomae
1989 Andrea A. Lunsford
1990 Jane E. Peterson
1991 Donald McQuade
1992 William W. Cook
1993 Anne Ruggles Gere
1994 Lillian Bridwell-Bowles
1995 Jacqueline Jones Royster
1996 Lester Faigley
1997 Nell Ann Pickett
1998 Cynthia L. Selfe
1999 Victor Villanueva, Jr.
2000 Keith Gilyard
2001 Wendy Bishop*
2002 John Lovas*
2003 Shirley Wilson Logan
2004 Kathleen Blake Yancey
2005 Douglas D. Hesse
2006 Judith “Jay” Wootten
2007 Akua Duku Anokye
2008 Cheryl Glenn
2009 Charles Bazerman
2010 Marilyn Valentino
2011 Gwendolyn Pough
2012 Malea Powell
*Deceased

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012 313

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 313

2/1/12 12:23 PM

2012 EXHIBITORS	
COMPANY NAME	

Booth NumberS

Bedford/St. Martin’s	
Broadview Press	
Council of Writing Program Administrators	
Duke University Press	
Fenton Books	
Hampton Press	
Harper Collins	
Hayden McNeil	
Heinemann Publishers	
Journal Editors in Rhetoric and Composition	
Macmillan	
McGraw-Hill Higher Education	
Merriam-Webster	
Oxford University Press	
Parlor Press	
Pearson	
Penguin	
Routledge	
Southern Illinois University Press	
Teen Online Writing Network	
TYCA	
University of Michigan Press	
University of Pittsburgh Press	
Utah State University Press	
W.W. Norton	
Wadsworth Cengage Learning	
Writing on the Edge	

300
314
315
215
404
212
217
307
413
417
308
206
312
405
400
201
213
109
316
412
216
408
107
313
100
200
414

314

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 314

2/1/12 12:23 PM

EXHIBITOR PRODUCT CLASSIFICATION
Booth #	 COMPANY NAME
Associations, Foundations, Government, and Non-Profits
315	
Council of Writing Program Administrators
412	
Teen Online Writing Network
Awards/Certificates, Recognition Services
College Prep/Test Prep
412	
Teen Online Writing Network
Curriculum & Instruction Materials
313	
Utah State University Press
408	
University of Michigan Press
Distance Education
206	
McGraw-Hill Higher Education
Literature (Fiction/Non-Fiction)
213	
Penguin Group (USA)
217	
HarperCollins Publishers
308	
Macmillan
314	
Broadview Press
414	
Writing On The Edge
Multimedia Resources
Professional Development
212	
Hampton Press Inc
313	
Utah State University Press
401	
Fountainhead Press
413	
Heinemann Publishers
Reference Books and Materials
Routledge
109	
201	
Pearson
212	
Hampton Press Inc.
312	
Merriam-Webster
405	
Oxford University Press
408	
University of Michigan Press
Textbooks/Publishing
100	
W. W. Norton
107	
University of Pittsburgh Press

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 315

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 315

2/1/12 12:23 PM

109	
115	
200	
206	
212	
215	
313	
314	
400	
401	
404	
405	
408	
417	

Routledge
Southern Illinois University Press
Wadsworth Cengage Learning
McGraw-Hill Higher Education
Hampton Press Inc.
Duke University Press
Utah State University Press
Broadview Press
Parlor Press (Clemson University)
Fountainhead Press
Fenton Books
Oxford University Press
University of Michigan Press
Journal Editors in Rhetoric and Composition

Technology-Instructional
201	
Pearson
206	
McGraw-Hill Higher Education
412	
Teen Online Writing Network
Other
412	

Teen Online Writing Network- Individualized Learning

316

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 316

2/1/12 12:23 PM

EXHIBIT HALL

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 317

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 317

2/1/12 12:23 PM

AMERICA’S CENTER LEVEL 1

318

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 318

2/1/12 12:23 PM

AMERICA’S CENTER LEVEL 2

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 319

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 319

2/1/12 12:23 PM

RENAISSANCE LEVEL 1

320

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 320

2/1/12 12:23 PM

RENAISSANCE LEVEL 2

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 321

b162-321-4Cs-2012.indd 321

2/1/12 12:23 PM

M.A./�h.�. in �hetoric and �cienti�c and Technical Communication
Our program combines theory and research in writing studies, rhetoric, and technical communication.
Small seminars and a strong mentoring system allow students to work closely with an internationally
recognized faculty.
See a listing of our grads and their dissertation titles at writingstudies.umn.edu/people/alumni.html.
Why the University of Minnesota - Twin Cities?
* Work and learn at a research-intensive
university in a dynamic, urban environment
* Access to major research libraries & archives
* Numerous opportunities for primary research
in workplace and non-pro�t settings
* The Department of Writing Studies is the home
of the international research quarterly Written
Communication

Areas of emphasis include:
* Digital literacies
* Internet studies
* Professional and technical communication
* Theories of writing
* Writing pedagogies
* Rhetorics of law and medicine
* Rhetorical theory

More information is available by email at writ@umn.edu or at
our website: writingstudies.umn.edu/grad/rstc.html.

Composition
C
omposition on
on Campus
Campus
Cross-Talk in Comp Theory:
A Reader, 3rd Edition

What Is “College Level” Writing? Volume 2

Edited by Victor Villanueva and Kristin L. Arola

Edited by Patrick Sullivan, Howard Tinberg, and Sheridan Blau

The 3rd edition of this invaluable
anthology features eight new
essays, including six in the new
technology section, “Virtual Talk:
Composing Beyond the Word.”

This sequel to What Is
“College-Level” Writing? (2006)
highlights the practical aspects of
teaching writing. By design, the
essays in this collection focus on
things all English and writing
teachers concern themselves with
on a daily basis—assignments,
readings, and real student writing.

ISBN: 978-0-8141-0977-9
No. 09779
$34.95 member
$46.95 nonmember

Assignments, Readings, and Student Writing Samples

ISBN: 978-0-8141-5676-6
No. 56766
$34.95 member
$46.95 nonmember

Shaping literacy for tomorrow, today.
Visit our website: https://secure.ncte.org/store/
or call toll-free: 1-877-369-6283

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 322

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Penguin grouP (uSA)
P l e A S e j o i n P e n g u i n g r o u P ( u S A ) At o u r b o o t h # 2 1 3

Danielle Evans

BEfORE YOU SUffOcAtE
YOUR OwN fOOl SElf
Riverhead • 978-1-59448-536-7

Dave Isay

All thERE IS

love Stories
from Storycorps

Penguin Press • 978-1-59420-321-3

Garrison Keillor

GOOD POEmS,
AmERIcAN PlAcES

Penguin • 978-0-14-312076-6

Alina tugend

BEttER BY mIStAKE

the Unexpected
Benefits of Being wrong

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-567-1

Elif Shafak

BlAcK mIlK

On writing, motherhood,
and the harem within
Viking • 978-0-670-02264-9

Alexandra fuller

Rita Dove, Editor

Joshua foer

thomas chatterton williams

Penguin • 978-0-14-310643-2

the Art and Science of
Remembering Everything

love, literature, and
a Black man’s Escape
from the crowd

thE lONG GOODBYE

leslie marmon Silko

Jean Kwok

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-566-4

A memoir

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-515-2

thE PENGUIN ANthOlOGY
Of twENtIEth-cENtURY
AmERIcAN POEtRY
meghan O’Rourke
A memoir

helen Oyeyemi

mOONwAlKING
wIth EINStEIN

Penguin • 978-0-14-312053-7

thE tURqUOISE lEDGE
Penguin • 978-0-14-312010-0

mR. fOx

Dan Savage & terry miller

Sophy Burnham

coming Out, Overcoming
Bullying, and creating
a life worth living

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-807-8

fOR wRItERS ONlY

Inspiring thoughts on the
Exquisite Pain and heady
Joy of the writing life from
Its Great Practitioners
Tarcher • 978-1-58542-912-7

tony Judt

thE mEmORY chAlEt

Penguin • 978-0-14-311997-5

Sherry Ellis & laurie lamson

NOw wRItE! mYStERIES

It GEtS BEttER

Plume • 978-0-452-29761-6

Khaled hosseini

thE KItE RUNNER
GRAPhIc NOvEl

Screenwriting Exercises
from today’s Best writers
Penguin Press • 978-1-59420-326-8 and teachers
Reflections on Art,
family, and Survival
Krys lee

Tarcher • 978-1-58542-851-9

A memoir

Gotham • 978-1-59240-630-2

thOUGhtS wIthOUt
cIGAREttES: A memoir
Gotham • 978-1-59240-629-6

thE DIGItAl DIvIDE

Arguments for and
Against facebook, Google,
texting, and the Age
of Social Networking
Tarcher • 978-1-58542-886-1

DRIftING hOUSE

Siobhan fallon

Amy chua

Philip Zaleski, Editor

NAL • 978-0-451-23439-1

Penguin • 978-0-14-312058-2

Viking • 978-0-670-02325-7

thE BESt SPIRItUAl
wRItING 2012
Introduction by
Philip Yancey

Penguin • 978-0-14-311990-6

YOU KNOw whEN
thE mEN ARE GONE

BAttlE hYmN Of
thE tIGER mOthER

Professor x

Jeanne Darst

Penguin • 978-0-14-312029-2

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-814-6

IN thE BASEmENt
Of thE IvORY tOwER

EScAPE fROm cAmP 14
One man’s Remarkable
Odyssey from North Korea
to freedom in the west
Viking • 978-0-670-02332-5

Drew magary

thE POStmORtAl

Penguin • 978-0-14-311982-1

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-827-6

hOlY GhOSt GIRl

mark Bauerlein

NOw wRItE!
ScREENwRItING

Blaine harden

Donna m. Johnson

christopher Benfey

RED BRIcK, BlAcK
mOUNtAIN, whItE clAY

GIRl IN tRANSlAtION

Jamil Ahmad

Oscar hijuelos

Tarcher • 978-1-58542-903-5

Penguin • 978-0-14-311962-3

Riverhead • 978-1-59448-547-3

Suspense, crime, thriller,
and Other mystery fiction
Exercises from today’s
Penguin Press • 978-1-59420-299-5 Best writers and teachers

cOcKtAIl hOUR
UNDER thE tREE
Of fORGEtfUlNESS

lOSING mY cOOl

fIctION RUINED
mY fAmIlY

thE wANDERING fAlcON
Stewart O’Nan
thE ODDS: A love Story
Viking • 978-0-670-02316-5

william Deresiewicz

A JANE AUStEN
EDUcAtION

how Six Novels taught me
About love, friendship, and
the things that Really matter

Penguin Press • 978-1-59420-288-9

John mcwhorter

whAt lANGUAGE IS
And what It Isn’t
and what It could Be

Gotham • 978-1-59240-625-8

Keri Smith

fINISh thIS BOOK

Perigee • 978-0-399-53689-2

Nathaniel Philbrick

whY READ mOBY-DIcK?
Viking • 978-0-670-02299-1

PENGUIN GROUP (USA) Academic Marketing Department 375 Hudson St. NY, NY 10014 www.penguin.com/academic

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 323

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Pedagogy:
Critical Approaches to Teaching Literature, Language,
Composition, and Culture

Recognizing the transformative power
of the classroom

Pedagogy is an innovative journal that has
energized the conversation concerning teaching
excellence in higher education, stimulating new
and exciting developments for undergraduate
and graduate instruction in English studies. A
print subscription includes online access to back
content since 2000.

Jennifer L. Holberg
and Marcy Taylor,
editors

To learn more about
Pedagogy, visit
booth 215 at CCCC!

Read a sample issue online at
pedagogy.dukejournals.org.

Subscription information
Three issues annually
Online access and RSS
feeds are included.
Individuals: $25
Students: $17
Single issues: $10
To order, please call 888-651-0122
(toll-free in the US and Canada) or 919-6885134, or e-mail subscriptions@dukeupress.edu.
For more information, visit
dukeupress.edu/pedagogy.

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 324

2/1/12 12:24 PM

RANDOM HOUSE, INC.

Please visit us at
RANDOMHOUSE.COM/ACMART
for exam copies

Dan Chaon

Jay-Z

STAY AWAKE

DECODED

Stories

SPIEGEL & GRAU | PAPER | 352 PAGES | $25.00

BALLANTINE BOOKS | CLOTH | 272 PAGES | $25.00

Jonathan Lethem

Edwidge Danticat

THE ECSTASY OF INFLUENCE

CREATE DANGEROUSLY

Nonfictions, Etc.

The Immigrant Artist at Work

DOUBLEDAY | CLOTH | 464 PAGES | $27.95

VINTAGE | PAPER | 208 PAGES | $14.95

POETRY IN PERSON

E. L. Doctorow

ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD
New and Selected Stories

Twenty-five Years of Conversation with America’s Poets

Edited by Alexander Neubauer
KNOPF | PAPER | 368 PAGES | $18.00

RANDOM HOUSE | PAPER | 304 PAGES | $15.00

Orhan Pamuk

Marjorie Garber

THE USE AND ABUSE OF LITERATURE
PANTHEON | CLOTH | 336 PAGES | $28.95

PAPERBACK AVAILABLE APRIL 2012

THE NAÏVE AND THE SENTIMENTAL NOVELIST
Translated by Nazim Dikbas
VINTAGE | PAPER | 208 PAGES | $14.95

James Salter

William H. Gass

DUSK AND OTHER STORIES

LIFE SENTENCES

Introduction by Philip Gourevitch

Literary Judgments and Accounts
KNOPF | CLOTH | 368 PAGES | $28.95

MODERN LIBRARY | PAPER | 160 PAGES | $15.00

Darin Strauss

Jay Heinrichs

WORD HERO

HALF A LIFE

A Fiendishly Clever Guide to Crafting the Lines
that Get Laughs, Go Viral, and Live Forever

RANDOM HOUSE | PAPER | 224 PAGES | $13.00

A Memoir

THREE RIVERS PRESS | PAPER | 352 PAGES | $14.00

Kurt Vonnegut
Paul Hendrickson

WHILE MORTALS SLEEP

HEMINGWAY’S BOAT

Unpublished Short Fiction

Everything He Loved in Life, and Lost, 1934–1961

Foreword by Dave Eggers

KNOPF | CLOTH | 544 PAGES | $30.00

DIAL PRESS | PAPER | 272 PAGES | $16.00

R ANDOM HOUSE , INC., 1745 BROADWAY, 12T H F LOOR, NE W YORK , N Y 10019 | ACMAR T @ R ANDOMHOUSE .COM

W W W.R ANDOMHOUSE .COM/ACMART

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 325

2/1/12 12:24 PM

representative
memoirs

•

case
studies

•

analytical
narratives

Patricia Lambert Stock
James Thomas Zebroski
Janet Emig
Thomas Newkirk
Anne Ruggles Gere
Sheridan Blau
Bonnie S. Sunstein
Lil Brannon
Cy Knoblauch
Charles Moran
Keith Gilyard
Kathleen Blake Yancey
Cathy Fleischer

A documentation
of composition studies’
roots in the field of
English education.
NCTE_4Cs_Stock.indd 1

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 326

STOP
BY THE
HEINEMANN
BOOTH!

1/12/12 2:25 PM

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Wadsworth English

Transforming Learning. Transforming Lives.

Professional Development • Training • Support
We’re your partners in the classroom—online, on the ground, and in between!

CCCC Professional Equity Project (PEP)

Cengage Learning is a proud sponsor of the Professional
Equity Project (PEP). This initiative—put forth by the
National Council of Teachers of English/Conference on
College Composition and Communication (CCCC)—helps
strengthen the quality of teaching in composition through
attendance and participation in the annual CCCC.

Proud co-sponsor of the
Professional Equity Project (PEP)

CCCC offers grants to teachers of writing with parttime or adjunct status at two- and four-year colleges
and universities to attend the CCCC annual convention.
The grant includes funds to help cover expenses, a paid
registration for the conference, and a coupon good for
one membership in CCCC. For more information on this
initiative and the nomination process, please visit
www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/pep.

TeamUP Faculty Programs: Take flight.

For more than a decade, TeamUP Faculty Programs have helped
faculty reach and engage students through peer-to-peer consultations, workshops, and professional development conferences.
Our Faculty Programs Consultants are a team of full-time educators
and expert teachers who understand your challenges whether your
classroom is on the ground, online, or both. They are available to
share their experiences using Cengage Learning solutions as well as instructional best practices developed in
their own classrooms. Learn more at www.cengage.com/teamup.

CourseCare connects you with people.

CourseCare is a revolutionary program providing you with exceptional services and support to integrate your Cengage Learning
Digital Solution into your course. Our dedicated team of digital solutions experts will partner with you to design and implement a program built around your course needs. We offer
in-depth, one-on-one professional training of our programs and access to a 24/7 Technical Support website.
To connect with CourseCare, visit www.cengage.com/coursecare.

Visit our exhibit booth numbers 101,103,105,200,202,204 or go to
www.cengage.com/english for more information.

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 327

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Wadsworth English

Transforming Learning. Transforming Lives.

Pair your Wadsworth text with the perfect
technology for the way you teach!

For Composition, Argument,
and Literature

Easily grade writing assignments,
check for originality, and facilitate peer
reviews—all from a single site!
Enhanced InSite™ includes the following valuable resources:
• GradeMark® paperless grading functionality
• Originality Checker, powered by Turnitin®
• PeerMark® peer review tools

• eRater® grammar checking tool
• Personal Tutor’s private tutoring resources
• And so much more!

To experience Enhanced InSite, visit our exhibit booth or go to www.cengage.com/insite.

Create an affordable and customizable online
reader in minutes with CourseReader!
CourseReader is a fully customizable online reader that provides access to hundreds of sources—including
readings, audio, and video selections—to complement your Composition or Literature course. Our growing list
of readers includes Argument, Writing Across the Curriculum, Rhetorical Modes, Themes, Sustainability, Pop
Culture, Introduction to Literature, American Literature, Chaucer, and Shakespeare.

To learn more about CourseReader, visit our exhibit booth or go to www.cengage.com/coursereader.

Help your students write better research papers!
Give them access to Questia: Trusted Online Research.
With Questia, students can
• Access a growing full-text online library—over 77,000 copyrighted books and 4 million articles.
• Quote and cite reliable materials with confidence and get better grades.
• Eliminate frustration with a single, 24/7 online research destination.
• Save time with intuitive research tools for organizing, storing, and managing work.

To learn more about Questia, visit our exhibit booth or go to
www.cengage.com/community/questia.
Visit our exhibit booth numbers 101,103,105,200,202,204 or go to
www.cengage.com/english for more information.

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 328

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Wadsworth English

Transforming Learning. Transforming Lives.

New Titles Available Now ©2013
COMPOSITION
Handbooks
The Hodges Harbrace Handbook,
18th Edition
Glenn | Gray
978-1-111-34670-6

978-1-111-35429-9

Also Available: Paperback Format
NEW! Keys to Successful Writing:
A Handbook for College and Career,
1st Edition
Raimes | Jerskey
978-1-111-35369-8

The Brief Wadsworth Handbook,
7th Edition
Kirszner | Mandell
978-1-111-83303-9

Pocket Keys for Writers, 4th Edition
Raimes
978-1-111-83301-5

COMP, 2nd Edition
VanderMey | Meyer | Van Rys | Sebranek
Steps to Writing Well with
Additional Readings, Enhanced,
8th Edition
Wyrick
978-1-133-309239

Writing in the Works, 3rd Editon
Blau | Burak
978-1-111-83460-9

The Harbrace Guide to Writing,
2nd Edition
Glenn

978-1-133-59078-1

NEW! Harbrace Essentials with
Resources for Writing in the
Disciplines
Glenn | Gray
978-1-133-59088-0

Cengage Advantage Books: Ideas &
Details, 8th Edition
Bauman
978-0-840-02884-6

The Sundance Writer:
A Rhetoric, Reader, Research Guide,
and Handbook, 5th Edition
Connelly

Also Available: Brief Edition

The Essay Connection, 10th Edition
Bloom
978-0-840-03007-8

Readings for Writers, 14th Edition
McCuen-Metherell | Winkler
978-1-111-83706-8

NEW! National Geographic Readers
Green
978-1-133-60358-0

Gender and Culture
978-1-133-60359-7

Cultural Identity in America
978-1-133-60428-0

Argument
Dynamic Argument, 2nd Edition
Lamm | Everett
978-1-111-84106-5

Also Available: Brief and Concise Editions

Also Available: Brief Edition

The Composition of Everyday Life,
Brief 4th Edition
Mauk | Metz

Inventing Arguments, 3rd Edition
Mauk | Metz

Also Available: Concise Edition
The Craft of Revision, Anniversary
Edition, 5th Edition
Murray

978-0-840-02775-7

Also Available: Brief Edition
NEW! The Well-Crafted Argument:
Across the Curriculum
White | Billings
978-1-133-05047-6

978-0-840-02885-3

Research Guides
Research Papers, 16th Edition
Coyle | Law
978-1-111-83951-2

Writing Guides

Readers

978-1-111-34909-7

978-1-111-84054-9

NEW! Harbrace Essentials with
Resources for Multilingual Writers
Glenn | Gray

978-1-111-84137-9

978-1-111-83387-9

978-1-133-30774-7

The Writer’s Harbrace Handbook,
5th Edition
Glenn | Gray

978-1-111-83908-6

Bridges to Better Writing, 2nd Edition
Nazario | Borchers | Lewis

Research Strategies for a Digital Age,
4th Edition
Tensen
978-0-840-02882-2

A Guide to MLA Documentation,
9th Edition
Trimmer
978-1-111-83707-5

NEW! A Guide to APA
Documentation, 1st Edition
Trimmer

LITERATURE
Literature: Reading, Reacting, Writing,
8th Edition
Kirszner | Mandell
978-1-111-34480-1

Also Available: Portable and Compact Editions
Portable 978-1-111-83904-8
Compact 978-1-111-83901-7
Legacies: Fiction, Poetry, Drama,
Nonfiction, 5th Edition
Schmidt | Crockett
978-0-495-89803-0

Also Available: Portable Edition

978-0-840-03010-8
12M-EL0430

Request a Review Copy Online: www.cengage.com/english

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 329

2/1/12 12:24 PM

B new

from

norton

independent and employee-owned

“They Say / I Say” with Readings 2e
gerald graff / cathy birkenstein / russel durst
The best-selling text/reader on academic writing, with
readings that will provoke students to think—and write—
about 5 important issues: Is Higher Education Worth the
Price? Is Pop Culture Actually Good for You? Is Fast Food the
New Tobacco? Why Does It Matter Who Wins the Big Game?
What’s Up with the American Dream?
“Hands down it’s the best composition book I’ve ever come across.”
—michael jauchen, colby-sawyer college

Back to the Lake: A Reader for Writers 2e
thomas cooley
A fresh take on the rhetorical modes, showing how they are
used in texts of all kinds—and that they are central to all the
writing, speaking, and thinking that we do. Now with 34 new
readings, a chapter on academic writing, and editorial apparatus
that explicitly links the readings to the writing instruction.
“Wow. These are essays I’d be excited to teach. Fabulous work!”
—darren defrain, wichita state university

The Norton Reader 13e
linda peterson / john brereton / joseph bizup
anne fernald / melissa goldthwaite
The book that has introduced millions of writing students to
the essay as a genre, now with a new generation of editors,
and a unique new website that allows you to sort and search
for readings by theme, genre, mode, and keyword.
“It’s a book that prompts both instructors and students to think
about many of the most important questions being discussed across
the academy today. And it gives our very diverse faculty plenty of
choice at a reasonable price.”
—alan ainsworth, houston community college

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 330

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Everyone’s an Author
andrea lunsford / lisa ede / beverly moss
carole clark papper / keith walters
A new rhetoric whose title reflects the reality that today
everyone with a computer can publish what they write—and
that invites students to see themselves as authors, giving them
the tools to write across genres, media, cultures, and audiences.
Available July 2012 with and without an anthology of
readings, in print or as an ebook. Please come to the Norton
booth to get a preview booklet.
“This is a book that’s driven by rhetorical theory, focused on the
genres students need to write, attuned to real-world writing, and
responsive to both digital and print discourses: all good things, in my
opinion. It would fit nicely, I think, with my program’s goals.”
—william lalicker, west chester university

The Little Seagull Handbook
richard bullock / francine weinberg
The only pocket handbook that covers the specific kinds of
writing students are routinely assigned: arguments, analyses,
reports, narratives, and more. Available as a spiral-bound book
and in a digital format for iPhones and other handheld devices.
“Smart and useful—and well-designed. Students can easily find
what they need.”
—susanmarie harrington, university of vermont

The Norton Mix
A database of 350 selections—mostly essays, but also
stories, poems, plays, speeches, and images—for creating
a custom reader.
“The Norton Mix is exactly what we hoped for . . . and the process
of putting together our own reader was straightforward and oddly
rewarding. Working with Norton—book people—was a pleasure.”
—ken cook, national park community college

(800)233-4830 n wwnorton.com

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 331

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Pearson – We believe in learning.
Ready.
You’re ready to pioneer new frontiers—to meet the challenges of these changing
times and engage your students through innovative approaches and dynamic course
materials. Pearson is ready to help. Publishers of Samuel Johnson’s Dictionary and
Roget’s Thesaurus, we’ve been shaping the landscape of how English is taught and
used for over 200 years. In the past decade, Pearson has partnered with you to
develop digital solutions, including the market-leading English MyLab products,
which have helped over 2 million students succeed in their writing and reading
endeavors. From printing press to iPad®, Pearson delivers solid content with
proven results.

Set.
You’ve set a course for yourself and your students. You know your destination and
how to get there. Because each student learns and each instructor teaches in his
or her own way, Pearson offers a full range of customizable digital and print-based
materials to support your journey. Additionally, we provide more professional
development resources and training opportunities than any other partner, to speed
you and your students toward your goals.

Let’s Go.
Go!
Like you, we know that wherever learning and literacy flourish, so do people
and communities. Visit us at www.englishinstructorexchange.com
to learn how we can work together to help students achieve academic success
and continue the journey as lifelong learners, engaged with the world, its people
and its possibilities.

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 332

2/1/12 12:24 PM

NEW IN HANDBOOKS

H. Ramsey Fowler
& Jane E. Aaron

Jane E. Aaron

Lester B. Faigley

Anne Frances Wysocki
& Dennis A. Lynch

Richard JohnsonSheehan &
Charles Paine

David Skwire &
Harvey S. Wiener

Christine Alfano &
Alyssa O’Brien
Available with Readings

Lester B. Faigley &
Jack Selzer
Available with Readings

NEW IN RHETORICS

Lester B. Faigley
Available in Brief
and Concise

Christine A. Hult

NEW IN ARGUMENT

John D. Ramage,
John C. Bean &
June C. Johnson
Available in Brief
and Concise

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 333

Nancy V. Wood
Available in Concise

2/1/12 12:24 PM

NEW IN READERS

Greg Barnhisel

Diana George &
John Trimbur

Gary J. Goshgarian

Aaron Morales

Kim Flachmann &
Michael Flachmann

Judith Nadell,
John A Langan &
Eliza A. Comodromos

NEW IN READERS

John J. Ruszkiewicz,
Daniel Anderson &
Christy Friend

James C. McDonald

NEW IN RESEARCH

Bruce Ballenger

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 334

Jim D. Lester Jr. &
James D. Lester (late)

2/1/12 12:24 PM

NEW TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
Proven Results • Engaging Experiences • Trusted Partner
Over 2 million students and 1,000 programs have used an English MyLab
product from Pearson. Why? Because they work. Learn about the
success instructors and students have had with our English MyLab
products at www.pearsonhighered.com/englishmylabs.
(click “Success Stories”)

MyWritingLab helps with skill remediation and writing improvement via two practice
engines: Writing Skills, mastery based skill practice offering progressive exercise sets,
and Writing Practice, low-stakes writing practice where students’ written submissions
are automatically scored by Pearson’s proven Intelligent Essay Assessor.

MyCompLab provides instructors with the flexibility to teach their course their way.
Whether it is increasing grading efficiency or just reducing the amount of time spent
building assignments or peer review groups, MyCompLab empowers instructors to
direct their course based on their objectives and helps them negotiate the practical
details of composition instruction.

For more information, please stop by the Pearson booth,
visit www.pearsonhighered.com/english, or contact your local Pearson
representative at www.pearsonhighered.com/replocator.

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 335

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left A — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

Bedford Service & Support

We’re here for you.
The Bedford Promise
Visit us at our booth and online to explore all the things
we deliver for teachers—including classroom, pedagogical,
and technical support.
Explore bedfordstmartins.com/support.

The Bedford Test Drive
You’re a crucial part of what we do. Visit us at our booth
to test-drive our media—and sign up online to get e-mail
updates and invitations to review the books and media we
have in the pipeline.
Sign up bedfordstmartins.com/englishupdates.

Your Bedford Account
With a Bedford Instructor Account, you can download
and request copies of Instructor Manuals, test banks,
PowerPoint presentations, Bedford Coursepacks, and more.
Sign up bedfordstmartins.com/myaccount.

support

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 336

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right A — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

Bedford Professional Resources
Because teaching is central to
composition, Bedford/St. Martin’s is
committed to supporting the work that
teachers do. Visit TeachingCentral for
a complete list of free print and online
professional resources for instructors.
bedfordstmartins.com/teachingcentral

NEW
Writing Together
Collaboration in
Theory and Practice
Andrea A. Lunsford
Stanford University

Lisa Ede
Oregan State University

NEW

The Bedford
Bibliography for
Teachers of Writing
Seventh Edition
Nedra Reynolds
University of Rhode Island

Jay Dolmage
University of Waterloo

Patricia Bizzell
College of the Holy Cross

Bruce Herzberg
Bentley College

professional resources

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 337

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left B — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

Hacker handbooks:
Student-tested. Teacher-trusted.

NEW
When it comes to
value, Rules rules

NEW
The handbook
students hold on to

Rules for Writers

A Pocket Style Manual

Rules for Writers has been thoroughly

Used by nearly a quarter million

tested in classrooms and writing

students each year, A Pocket

centers all over America. It’s the

Style Manual is a straightforward,

handbook students buy because

inexpensive quick reference, with

it’s affordable; it’s the handbook

content flexible enough to suit the

students use because it’s accessible.

needs of writers in the humanities,

And it’s the handbook instructor’s

social sciences, sciences, health

trust because the advice is clear

professions, business, and beyond. Its

and the coverage is comprehensive.

slim format, brief length, and spiral

Also available in a tabbed version

binding make it easy for students to

that includes a section on writing

keep the book with them for every

about literature.

writing assignment, in any class.

Seventh Edition

Sixth Edition

handbooks

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 338

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right B — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

The writer’s handbook—reimagined
Writer’s Help
An Online Handbook
Diana Hacker, Stephen A. Bernhardt, and Nancy Sommers
Based on the content writing teachers trust, informed by interviews with more than 2,000
college writers, and powered by a search engine that recognizes student language, Writer’s
Help is a robust new handbook—one that helps close the gap between search and find.

writershelp.com

Support for teaching with any Hacker handbook
hackerhandbooks.com

Between the Drafts
A Teaching Journal

Read Nancy Sommer’s updates about working with
student writers.

Teaching with Hacker Handbooks
Marcy Carbajal Van Horn

Check out lesson plans, customizable activities, and advice
about integrating a handbook into your course. Available
online and in print.

handbooks

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 339

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left C — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

Handbook is the first
handbook to help

The Everyday Writer’s
more visual coverage of the
writing process, research

bedfordstmartins.com/easywriter/catalog

The St. Martin's

bedfordstmartins.com/everyday_writer/catalog

bedfordstmartins.com/smhandbook/catalog

Andrea Lunsford knows student writing

EasyWriter distills
Andrea Lunsford’s
teaching and research

and documentation, and

into the essentials

smart decisions they

critical thinking and

that writers need to

make as social

argument help prepare

make good rhetorical

writers in order to

students for today’s everyday

choices—all in a pocket

succeed in their

writing challenges—from

handbook that’s easy

academic and

managing a research project

to use, easy to carry,

professional work.

to texting a professor.

and easy to afford.

students build on the

Support for teaching with any Lunsford handbook
lunsfordhandbooks.com

Follow Andrea Lunsford on Facebook

Teacher to Teacher
A Bedford Bits Blog
Read Andrea Lunsford’s updates on the literacy revolution.

Teaching with Lunsford Handbooks
Unleash your handbook's potential with a
collection of advice, teaching tips, and sample
documents. Available online and in print.

handbooks

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 340

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right C — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

Because there is more than one writing process
How to Write Anything

NEW

A Guide and Reference
with Readings
Second Edition
John J. Ruszkiewicz, University of Texas at Austin
Jay T. Dolmage, University of Waterloo

ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT THE
READER

Designed to be clear and simple, the Guide lays
out focused advice for writing common academic
and real-world genres, while the Reference
covers the range of writing skills that students
need as they work across genres and disciplines.
Genre-based readings engage students and

bedfordstmartins.com howtowrite/
catalog

inspire ideas. The result is everything you need
to teach composition in a flexible, highly visual

guide, reference, and reader. The second edition gives students more support for academic
writing, more help choosing and working with genres, and new advice on multimodal
composing. Now includes multimodal content in the e-Library for How to Write Anything
packaged for free with the print book.

“My students and my teachers are absolutely
delighted with this text. It offers everything that
is needed to supplement the classroom without
overwhelming students. The voice and tone of the
text are always encouraging for students and never
condescending.

”

— Karen Jobe, Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City

guides

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 341

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left D — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

All the help students need to succeed
Successful College Writing

NEW

Skills, Strategies, Learning Styles
Fifth Edition
Kathleen T. McWhorter

ALSO
AVAILABLE
IN A BRIEF
EDITION

Niagara County Community College

Because so many first-year writing students lack
the basic skills the course demands, reading
specialist McWhorter offers step-by-step strategies
for writing and research, detailed coverage of the
nine rhetorical patterns of development, extensive
instruction in active and critical reading, 60 readings

bedfordstmartins.com/
successfulwriting/catalog

that provide strong rhetorical models, and practical
advice on study and college survival skills, as well as
an easy-to-use handbook in the complete edition.

St. Martin’s Guide coverage—brief and
value-priced
NEW

Axelrod & Cooper’s Concise
Guide to Writing
Sixth Edition

Rise B. Axelrod, University of California, Riverside
Charles R. Cooper, University of California, San Diego
Adapted from the best-selling St. Martin’s Guide to
Writing, Axelrod & Cooper’s Concise Guide to Writing
provides complete writing coverage in a brief format and
at a great price. Streamlined and redesigned, this new
bedfordstmartins.com/
conciseguide/catalog

edition represents a bold reimagining of the way students
work and offers them practical, class-tested strategies for
writing effectively in an increasingly visual world.

guides

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 342

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[D

5]

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right D — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

A brief guide that takes reading seriously
Writing in Response

NEW

Matthew Parfitt
Boston University’s College of General Studies

Writing in Response is a flexible, brief rhetoric that
offers a unique focus on analysis and reflection—
the skills at the heart of academic writing. It helps
students compose academic essays by showing
how active reading and exploratory writing bring
fresh ideas to light and how informal response
is developed into polished, documented prose.
bedfordstmartins.com/
parfitt/catalog

Extensively class tested, Writing in Response
emphasizes the key techniques common to

reading, thinking, and writing throughout the humanities and social sciences by
teaching students the value of a social, incremental, and recursive writing process.

New for writing and research

Write, and
engage
the world

bedfordstmartins.com/
fieldworking/catalog

The research
writer’s
survival guide

bedfordstmartins.com/
bedfordresearcher/catalog

guides

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 343

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left E — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

What’s new in readers?
What is the value of a reader? A great reader connects with students. It pulls in texts and
images, compelling ideas and concrete models, and a few surprises. But a high-quality
reader is more than the sum of its parts. It gives you—and your students—a structure to
build on, a framework for talking together and doing the work of composition.
See what’s new at bedfordstmartins.com/readers.

A clear path to
learning about
argument

Start with a
subject
students love—
pop culture

Popular culture
goes to college

The best-selling
short essay
reader

Great writing
you can teach
any way
you want

The rhetorical
reader with the
most support

readers

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 344

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[D

5]

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right E — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

Demystifies academic writing
From Inquiry to Academic Writing
A Text and Reader
Second Edition

NEW
ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT THE
READER

Stuart Greene, University of Notre Dame
April Lidinsky, Indiana University South Bend
From Inquiry to Academic Writing: A Text and Reader
demystifies cross-curricular thinking and writing by breaking
it down into a series of habits and skills that students can
learn in order to join academic conversations. The second
edition features many more, varied, and contemporary

bedfordstmartins.com/
frominquiry/catalog

readings throughout. The extensive thematic reader, newly
organized around specific disciplines, opens up thoughtprovoking conversations about key issues in Education,
Media Studies, Business, International Relations, Biology,
and Environmental Studies.

Make writing the center of the writing course
Writing about Writing
A College Reader
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida
Doug Downs, Montana State University
Quickly adopted by hundreds of instructors, Writing about
Writing presents accessible writing studies research by authors
such as Donald Murray, Mike Rose, and Deborah Brandt,
together with popular texts by authors such as Malcolm X,
Sherman Alexie, and Junot Díaz. Throughout the book, friendly

bedfordstmartins.com/
explanations and scaffolded questions help students connect
writingaboutwriting/
catalog
to readings and—even more important—develop knowledge

about writing they can use in college, at work, and in their
everyday lives.

readers

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 345

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left F — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

A reader for every budget
THE PORTABLE SERIES: Our most affordable option at only $25 net.

SPECIAL

VALUE OFFER
Package any
portable reader with
Diana Hacker’s
Rules for Writers for
only $40 net.

MID-SIZE EXCEPTIONAL PRICE: Only $32 net.

Package either
mid-size reader with
Diana Hacker’s
Rules for Writers for
only $50 net.

EVERYDAY VALUES: Compare all our reader prices—already 10-20% below
the competition.

EVERYDAY VALUES: Package any two Bedford/St. Martin’s
composition titles and save 20% on the package.

ADD A

HANDBOOK

SAVE

&

EVEN MORE!

value

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 346

2/1/12 12:24 PM

]

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right F — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

The best-selling technical communication
text for a reason
Technical Communication
Tenth Edition

Mike Markel, Boise State University
Technical Communication models the principles
it teaches, demonstrating practical strategies
that students can put to use right away—in

NEW

class or on the job. Mike Markel offers clear,
friendly advice and up-to-the-minute real-world
examples to show students how to tackle the
major types of documents and writing situations
they will encounter in their professional lives.
Easy-to-reference guidelines, up-to-date Tech

bedfordstmartins.com/techcomm/
catalog

Follow Mike Markel on Facebook

Tips, and handy checklists throughout the book
help students apply appropriate strategies.
With every edition, instructors tell us, Markel
continues to get it right. Now available with
Multimedia Models packaged for free.

Quick-access references with all the
writing models students need

NEW

NEW

bedfordstmartins.com/
alredbus/catalog

bedfordstmartins.com/
alredtech/catalog

business & technical communication

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 347

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left G — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

Help students discover why and how
literature matters
Making Literature Matter
An Anthology for Readers and Writers
Fifth Edition

NEW

John Schilb, Indiana University
John Clifford, University of North Carolina at Wilmington
In its fifth edition, Making Literature Matter continues to
deliver on the promise of its title. Its thematic anthology
gathers memorable stories, poems, plays, and essays
into unique literary clusters addressing issues that rouse
passionate responses in students. At the same time, its

bedfordstmartins.com/
makinglitmatter/catalog

comprehensive rhetoric shows students how to harness
those responses into thoughtful arguments about the
issues raised by the clusters and the literature.

Jump right in … the literature’s fine
NEW

Approaching Literature
Reading • Thinking • Writing
Third Edition
Peter Schakel, Hope College
Jack Ridl, Hope College
With its affordable price, its streamlined and studentfriendly text, and its commitment to showcasing the
most engaging and diverse literary works publishing
right now, Approaching Literature offers all students
something that will allow them to experience

bedfordstmartins.com/
approachinglit/catalog

meaningful immersion into the world of literature.

literature

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 348

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[D

5]

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right G — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

Sized and priced to go
Literature to Go
Michael Meyer, University of Connecticut

$42
Net

Literature to Go is not simply a modestly sized and
priced anthology of extraordinary literature. It’s a
complete guide to reading and writing about literary
works—from classic masterpieces to
today’s flash fiction.

Do more. Pay less.
Create your
own adventure.

bedfordstmartins.com/
meyertogo/catalog

Also available from Michael Meyer
NEW
Where literature lives

Introducing...
Lit Bits
Ideas for Teaching Literature and
Creative Writing
Looking for new ways to teach literature? Fresh
assignments for your creative writing course? Check in
with our Lit Bits bloggers for teaching ideas you can use today.
bedfordstmartins.com/litbits

literature

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 349

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Left H — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | bedfordstmartins.com

New for developmental courses
Bedford/St. Martin’s, the most successful publisher of course materials for composition,
is serious about writing at all levels. For basic writing courses, we take great care in
creating books and media that solve real classroom challenges.
See what’s new at bedfordstmartins.com/developmental.

Built from
results-driven
research in the
basic writing
classroom

Get your
students
writing
first

Help basic
writers build a
solid foundation
for success

Because the
real world
requires
real writers

Grammar made
easy—at a great
low price

developmental

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 350

2/1/12 12:24 PM

[D

5]

[DO NOT PRINT: publication: CCCC Program (Mar 2012)— placement: Right H — ad size: 5 x 7.625]

Bedford/St. Martin’s

you get more | visit us at booths 300-306

Help developmental students
focus on learning
WritingClass
A Bedford/St. Martin’s
Online Course Space
WritingClass makes it easier to show

student writers what they’ve done
and where they need to go next.
Diagnostics, exercises, writing and
commenting tools, step-by-step
lessons, and Learning Curve—a
new interactive tool that adapts
to students’ skill level as it guides
them through essential topics—
give your students the help they
need to improve writing, grammar,
punctuation, and editing skills in one
completely customizable course space.
Take a tour. Visit yourwritingclass.com.

SkillsClass
A Bedford/St. Martin’s
Online Course Space
Developed for courses and programs that cover more than writing alone, SkillsClass
features the same interactive tools as WritingClass, along with over 30 easy-to-assign
lessons on reading, writing, grammar, and study skill topics, from Active Reading to
Writing Arguments, and from Finding and Fixing Fragments to Time Management.
Coming soon!

developmental

c322-351-4Cs-2012.indd 351

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Index of Participants
Letter-number combinations after names indicate sessions. Special Interest Groups
on Thursday, 6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m. and on Friday, 6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m. are coded SIG.
Full-Day Workshops on Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. are coded W; Half-Day
Workshops on Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m. are coded MW, AW. Other codes
are as follows:
CWS ....
FS ....
FSP ....
IP ....
MD ....
PF ....
PI ....
RFP ....
RNF ....
QRN ....

Coalition of Women Scholars
Featured Session
Featured Speaker
Intellectual Property Caucus
Master’s Degree Consortium
Poetry Forum
Public Image of Two-Year College
Rhetoricians for Peace
Research Network Forum
Qualitative Research Network

A
Accardi, Steven: N 20
Ackerman, John: MW 8
Adachi, Joshua: J 08
Adams, G. Travis: K 24
Adams, Heather: L 28
Adams, Janah: RNF
Adams, Megan: RNF
Adams, Peter: W 7, K 04
Adams Wooten, Courtney: E 13
Adang, Rosemary: N 30
Adkins, Kaye: J 03
Adkins, Tabetha: C 32, RNF
Adler-Kassner, Linda: A 36, B 06, E.33
Adsanatham, Chanon: D 01
Adsanatham, Chanon: D 01
Adsit, Janelle: K 01
Agnew, Lois: F 03, I 33
Aichinger, Scott: L 33
Akassi, Monique: J 19
Akbas, Erdem: W 5
Alam, Sadaf: K 33

Albernaz, Joe: A 13
Alberti, John: H 14
Alden, Michael: G 31
Alexander, Buzz: W 10
Alexander, Christopher: G 04
Alexander, Jonathan: E 34
Alexander, Kara Poe: N 01
Alfano, Christine: W 2, N 27
Allan, Elizabeth: F 27, RNF
Allen, Ira: A 18
Allen, Jan: K 04
Almjeld, Jen: H 30
Alusow Hart, Sharon: M 33
Alvarez, Steven: N 05
Amidon, Timothy: IP, C 29
Ampadu, Lena: M 34
Andelora, Jeffrey: H 28
Andersen, Erin M.: E 08
Andersen, Rebekka: B 15
Anderson, Amy: K 06
Anderson, Dan: A 13
Anderson, Dana: A 18
Anderson, Daniel: MW 7
Anderson, Erin R.: E 22

352

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 352

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Anderson, Joyce Rain: F 33
Anderson, Paul: W 2, AW 7, E 10
Anderson, Wendy K. Z.: B 33
Andrew, Klobucar: A 14
Andrews, Kimberly Quiogue: K 01
Andrus, Sonja: J 04
Angeli, Elizabeth L.: B 04
Anheier, Paul: M 19
Anokye, Akua Duku: M 34
Ansari, Shamim: L 23
Applegarth, Risa: L 29
Arbor, Joy: A 17
Arca, Rosemary: F 15
Arduser, Lora: C 09
Arnold, Ellen: K 18
Arnold, Jacqueline: MW 4
Arnold, Lisa: W 5
Arola, Kristin: E 29, J 15
Arroyo, Sarah: W 13
Artze-Vega, Isis: A 06
Arzt, Judy: L 17
Ashby, Dominic: H 12
Ashley, Hannah: W 7, TSIG 13
Ashlock, Sarah: N 07
Ashwood-Gegas, Barbara: M 05
Athon, Amanda: M 11
Atkins, Anthony: RNF
August, Anita: L 32
Augustine, Jada: H 04
Aull, Laura: G 08
Aune, Jeanine: M 29
Austin, James: I 05
Austin, Julia: MW 6
Autrey, Ken: D 13
Avci, Neval: W 5, C 22
Awad Scrocco, Diana: E 26

B
Babb, Jacob: D 13, RNF
Babb, Ruth: K 03
Babcock, Rebecca: AW 11, H 24
Baca, Damián: AW 12
Baca, Isabel: AW 3, AW 12
Bachelor Robinson, Michelle: E 20
Bahls, Patrick: G 14
Bailey, Deborah: D 33
Bailey, Lisa: RNF
Baillargeon, Kathryn: G 26

Bair Van Dam, Cynthia: H 32
Baird, Neil: E 02, TSIG 16
Baker, Anthony: N 14
Baker, Beverly: I 03
Baker, Laura: N 17
Baker, Tracey: MW 6
Baldwin, Evelyn: K 24
Baldwin, Kathleen: N 25
Ball, Cheryl: A 26
Ballard, Kim: RNF
Ballentine, Brian: D 31
Ballif, Michelle: B 19
Balzhiser, Deborah: A 34
Balzotti, Jonathan: D 17
Banks, Will: B 27
Barbara, Lewis: G 11
Barber, Joy: RNF
Barnard, Ian: F 01
Barnes-Pietruszynski, Jessica: B 05
Barnett, Scot: H 13
Barrett, Kenna: M 32, RNF
Barrett-Fox: Jason: W 6, L 28
Barrios, Barclay: C 14
Barro, Linda: G 28
Barron, Paul: G 07
Barros, Jessica: K 17
Bartlett, Lesley: RNF
Bartolotta, Joseph: C 32
Barton, Matthew: W 3, D.30
Basgier, Christopher: G 20
Bateman, Cynthia: E 06, RNF
Batova, Tatiana: B 15
Battistelli, Todd: B 07
Batts, Jacqui: N 28
Bauer, Holly: M 24
Bauknight, Lee: G 24
Bawarshi, Anis: D 34
Bayyurt, Yasemin: W 5
Bazerman, Charles: C 10, D 34, F 35
Beach, David R.: F 07
Bean, Janet: F 37
Bean, John: C 11
Bean, Kit: M 09
Bearden, Logan: G 03, N 22
Beare, Zachary: RNF
Beaudin, Andrea: J 28
Beck, Estee: RNF
Becker, Stephanie L.: G 16
Begley, Lauren: K 16
Beitler, James: F 08

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 353

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 353

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Belcher, Kristen: M 16
Belk, John: K 01
Bell McQuaid, Stacy: F 28
Belli, Jill: A 37
Bello, Anne: W 11, A 30
Bellwoar, Hannah: G 22
Bender, Ashly: D 27
Bennett, Gary: F 24
Bensen-Barber, Beth: N 18
Benson, Nancy: RNF
Benz, Brad: F 07
Berenguel, Joseph: E 17
Bergman, Beck: E 10
Bergman, Rebecca: W 2
Bergmann, Linda: A 33
Bernard-Donals, Michael: A 17
Bernstein, Mashey: D 12
Bernstein, Susan Naomi: W 7, RNF
Berrigan, Timothy: B 21
Berry, Debra: N 33
Berry, Patrick: W 10, J 22
Bertken, Amy: L 25
Bertsch, Deborah: RNF
Bérubé, Michael: C 14
Bessette, Jean: G 02
Bezner, Kevin: E 25
Bianco, Jamie “Skye”: A 11
Biggs Chaney, Sara: M 01
Bird, Barb: AW 11, K 25, TSIG 2
Bizup, Joe: I 14
Bizzaro, Patrick: L 03
Bizzaro, Resa Crane: F 19, FSIG 4
Blackburn, Lorelei: A 03
Blackmon, Phillip: E 20
Blain, Heather: H 06
Blair, Kristine: E 05
Blake, Andrew C.: N 09
Blake, Eliot: L 16
Blakely, Barb: F 25
Blakeslee, Ann: A 21
Blanchard, Wendy: E 16
Blank, Ryan: H 03
Blankenship, Chris: RNF
Blau, Sheridan: N 35
Bleakney, Julia: I 06
Bliman, Eric: N 23
Bloom, Lynn Z.: W 1, L 34
Blum Malley, Suzanne: W 2
Boade, Erin: M 23
Bockmon, Kelly: M 19

Boedy, Matthew: H 18
Boettler, Lynn: K 06
Bogart, Benjamin: F 02
Bohr, Dennis: M 33
Bolinder, Megan M.: F 36
Bollin, Carol: A 02
Bommarito, Dan: K 13
Boquet, Elizabeth: C 08
Boryczka, Jocelyn: C 08
Bose, Dev: QRN
Bou Ayash, Nancy: I 26
Bourelle, Andrew: C 18
Bourelle, Tiffany: I 27
Bowdon, Melody: A 06
Bowen, Betsy: F 18
Bowen, David: J 15
Bowles, Laura: RNF
Bowles, Sarah: C 23
Bowman, Jim: D 13
Bowman, Randall: E 01
Boyce, Ayesha: E 04
Boyle, Casey: K 27
Brack, Lori: A 23
Bradbury, Kelly: J 13
Bradley, Desi M.: M 11
Bradley, Linda: W 2, E 10
Bradshaw, Leslie: C 20
Branch, Erin: E 18
Branch, Kirk: C 32
Brandenburg, Laura: N 32
Brandt, Deborah: B 35
Branstetter, Heather: B 29
Brantner, Mark: N 26
Bras, Harris: F 06
Braun, MJ: RFP
Brazeau, Alicia: G 15
Bremen, Brian: F 16
Brenda, Wiens: M 13
Brewer, Elizabeth: N 25
Brewster, Cori: D 06
Bridges, Bill: J 23
Bridgewater, Matthew: QRN
Bridgman, Katherine: B 09
Briggs, Timothy: A 04
Brinkschulte, Melanie: W 5
Britt, Erica: K 02
Britt-Smith, Laurie: RNF
Brizee, Allen: J 19, RNF
Broad, Bob: MW 2, B 26
Brock, Kevin: W 12

354

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 354

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Brock, Kyllikki: H 11
Brockman, Elizabeth: FSIG 20
Broeckel, Tara: M 28
Bromley, Pam: E 21
Brooke, Robert: G 29
Brooks, Ronald Clark: A 27
Brooks, Peter: H 27
Brooks, Ron: K 23
Brown, James: C 25
Brown, Robert (Robin): H 31
Browne, Kevin: E 20
Browning, Randi: D 12
Broyles, Kathryn: W 14
Bruce, Shanti: AW 4, J 06, N 27
Bruch, Patrick: H 16
Brueggemann, Brenda: J 33
Bruhn, Dana: MW 4
Brunk-Chavez, Beth: B 03
Bryant, Lizbeth: AW 13, G 29
Bryson, Krista: H 22
Buchenot, André: E 28
Buck, Amber: M 03
Buck, Katherine M.: C 26
Buckner, Jennifer: QRN
Buehl, Jonathan: FSIG 19
Buell, Marcia: B 24
Bulster, Tim: N 28
Bunn, Mike: TSIG 4
Bunner, Emily: F 09
Burdick, Melanie: M 16, RNF
Burkett, Kristen: I 11
Burleson, Debra D.: B 04
Burmester, Beth: B 14 (DELETE)
Burmester, Elizabeth: B 14
Burns, Deborah: J 01
Burns, William: E 18
Burnside, Elkie: A 27
Burrows, Cedric: J 18
Burton, Vicki Tolar: F 03
Busser, Cristine: RNF
Butler, Dennis: A.05
Butler, Jodie: D 35
Buyserie, Beth: F 20

C
Cadle, Lanette: IP
Cagle, Lauren: D 03
Cain, Kathleen: F 21

Cain, Mary Ann: L 03
Calhoon-Dillahunt, Carolyn: H 07
Camp, Heather: AW 11
Campbell, Jennifer: F 08
Campbell, Lillian: K 08
Campbell, Michelle: K 16
Campbell, Trisha Red: A 11
Candarli, Duygu: W 5
Capdevielle, Matthew: B 25
Caplan, Nigel: N 15
Carillo, Ellen: TSIG 4
Carlino, Paula: H.35
Carlisle, Susan: E 14
Carlson-Casaregola, Victoria: M 05
Carpenter, William: D 07
Carr, Allison: L 25
Carrales, Rachel: A 17
Carroll, Beth: L 08
Carroll, Llana: J 01
Carroll, William: H 24
Carsey, Kerrie: E 27
Carter, Christopher: N 22
Carter, Duncan: D 24
Carter, Karen: H 21
Carter, Mike: K 10
Carter, Shannon: AW 10, A 30, C 24
Carter, Terry: AW 3
Casaregola, Vincent: A 31
Cason, Jackie: F 14
Cassity, Kathy: A 23
Caswell, Nicole: A 32
Cavallaro, Alexandra: F 12
Cedillo-Tootalian, Christina V.: L 11
Cella, Laurie: MW 9
Cellio, Jen: H 14
Center, Carole: C 16
Ceraso, Steph: B 16
Chamberlain, Elizabeth: C 34
Champagne, Maurice C.: E 19
Chandler, Erin: K 09
Chaney, Sara Biggs: AW 2
Chappelow, Brent: K 13
Chaput, Catherine: RFP
Charlton, Michael: G 13
Chaudoir, Susan: D 32
Chayko, Mary: C 26
Chemishanova, Polina: F 21
Chen, Yue: H 05
Cherry, Roger: A 22
Chhaya, Avani: N 28

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 355

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 355

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Childers, Pamela: W 15, K 29, FSIG 6, RNF
Chinelly, Cynthia: C 05
Ching, Kory: L 07
Ching, Stuart: FSIG 3
Chirindo, Kundai: J 18
Chiseri-Strater, Elizabeth: I 20
Chisum, Pamela: G 13
Chiu, Scott: L 33
Choseed, Malkiel: H 28
Christoph, Julie Nelson: A 07
Christopher Carey, Kevin: B 22
Cicciarelli, Louis: G 07
Cintron, Ralph: B22
Cirilla, Anthony: K 03
Clanaugh, David: E 23
Clark, Carol Lea: M 23
Clark, Dave: B 15
Clark, Erin: D 23
Clark, Irene: D 24
Clark, J. Elizabeth: W 7, TSIG 13, N 33
Clark, Lauren: B 31
Clark, Naomi: I 07
Clark, Ryan: L 20
Clark-Oates, Angela: B 32
Clarke, Robin: K 34
Clary-Lemon, Jennifer: D 20
Clauss, Patrick: B 25
Clegg, Geoffrey: RNF
Clemens, Laura: J 03
Clemens Fox, Regina: G 25
Clemons, AmyLea: M 21
Clifton, Jennifer: MW 9
Cobos, Casie: W 8, A 01, FSIG 16
Cochran, Cynthia: RNF
Cochran, Tanya R.: M 21
Colby, Rebekah Shultz: D 15
Colby, Richard: D 15
Coley, Heidi: A.05
Coley, Toby: N 07
Collamati, Anthony: F 05
Collins, Daniel: AW 13
Collins-Frohlich, Jesslyn: K 06
Colombini, Crystal: C 18
Colton, Jaren: RNF
Comer, Kate: J 13
Condis, Megan: G 16
Condon, Frankie: AW 9, L 13, N 08
Condon, James: C 19
Condon, William: AW 9
Conley, Paige: E 08

Connolly, Lauren: A 10
Consilio, Jennifer: RNF
Coogan, David: A 03
Cooper, Cloee: M 06
Cooper, Marilyn: C 31, H 13, L 02
Cope, Brian: H 31
Cope, Emily: B 07
Copeland, Linda: A 28
Corbett, Steven: L 31
Cordaro, Danielle: L 17
Cordell, Ryan: I 14
Cortez, Jose: RNF
Costello, Kristi: AW 2, M 01
Coulter, Gretchen: E 12
Courant Rife, Martine: A 15
Cox, Anicca R.: RNF
Cox, Charles: H 32
Cox, Matthew B.: F 12
Cox, Michelle: AW 4, A 08, FSIG 6, M 31
Coxwell-Teague, Deborah: J 23
Coyle, Anne: E 05
Craig, Jennifer: W 2, E 10
Craig, Todd: K 17
Crane, Kate: J 28
Creel, Gill: F 23
Crimmins, Cynthia: D 22
Cripps, Michael: H 08
Crisp, Sally: L 01
Crotty, Marian: D 03
Crump, Adrienne: M 14
Cubbison, Laurie: IP
Cullick, Jonathan: H 14
Culver, Karen D.: G 17
Cummings, Lance: D 10
Cunningham, Jennifer: E 26
Cushman, Ellen: A 03
Cushman, Jeremy: RNF
Cutrufello, Gabriel: E 18

D
D’Angelo, Barbara: A 14
D’Errico, Jon: I 14
Dadak, Angela: AW 4, MW 5, B 23
Dadas, Caroline: I 01
Daer, Alice: K 14, N 31
Daley, James: M 19
Dallas, Phyllis: N 29
Danberg, Robert: G 13

356

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 356

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Daniel, Molly: B 32, N 18
Danielewicz, Jane: D 34
Daniell, Beth: A 22
Daniels, David J.: J 31
DasBender, Gita: M 12
Daugherty, Daphne: H 27
Davi, Wiley: N 13
Davies, Laura J.: RNF
Davila, Bethany: G 03
Davis, Andrew: B 14
Davis, Diane: A 18
Davis, Ella Jean: K 05
Davis, Kim: RNF
Davis, Matt: W 12, B 34, N 10
Davis, Suanna H.: L 22
Day, Kami: B 29
Day, Michael: D 31
Day, Stacy: J 24
De Hertogh, Lori Beth: M 33
De La Ysla, Linda: H 09
De Pew, Kevin: FSIG 15
Dean, Ann: RNF
Deane, Paul: K 32
Deardorff, Kellan: I 13
DeBlasis, Shelley: E 04
Dedek, Michael: L 14
DeCourcy, Delia: E 07
Dedek, Michael: L 14
Dedo, David: L 17
DeGenaro, William: F 10
DeJoy, Nancy: W 13
Del Principe, Ann: B 28
Delcambre, Isabelle: W 5
Delgadillo, Willivaldo: A 10
DelliCarpini, Dominic: D 22
Dellinger, Mary Ann: C 28
Dembroski, Kristen: H 25
DeNardi, Gina: A 32
Denecker, Christine: H 30
Denny, Harry: B 10, N 08
DePalma, Michael: MW 3, H 02
DePew, Kevin Eric: B 23
Dessommes, Nancy: N 29
Detweiler, Eric: G 23
Devet, Bonnie D.: M 14
Devitt, Amy: D 34
DeVoss, Dànielle Nicole: A 15
deWinter, Jennifer: J 19
DeWitt, Scott Lloyd: A 13
Diab, Rasha: B 10

Dick, Rodney: L 17
Dickel, Michael: B 12
Dickson, Chidsey: MW 7
Dieter, Eric: J 31
Dilger, Bradley: E 02
Dingo, Rebecca: D 16
Dinitz, Sue: C 03
Dinolfo, John: QRN, E 28
DiPaula, Lauren: M 05
Dirk, Kerry: K 10
Dively, Ronda: B 18
Do, Tom: I 16
Dobrin, Sid: F 13, K 21
Dodson, Will: M 15
Doe, Sue: W 14, H 26
Dolmage, Jay: C 01, J 35
Donahue, Christiane: W 05, C 10, D 16, M 01
Donahue, Patricia: E 30
Donahue, Tiane: E 02
Donehower, Kim: H 22
Donelson, Rachel: RNF
Donnelli, Emily: N 30
Donnelly, Dianne: L 03
Donnelly, Michael: MW 9
Donohue, Lacey: C 19
Doran, Jo: FSIG 21, N 20
Dorsey, Jennifer: A 31
Dougherty, Timothy: W 08, F.22
Douglas, Kathryn: N 01
Downs, Doug: I 17
Dragga, Sam: J 05
Drake, John: AW 5
Drake, Kimberly: W 10
Drew, Chris: K 01
Driscoll, Dana: RNF, MW 2, A 35, H 03
Driskill, Qwo-Li: AW 3, F 19
Dryer, Dylan: E 33, L 02
Dubisar, Abby: L 28
Dudar, Viktoriia: L 05
due to institutional policy., Inmate name
withheld: J 32
Duffey, Barbara: D 14
Duffy, John: B 35
Duffy, William: E 03
Dukaj, Envera: K 27
Dunbare, Katrina: L 09
Dunn Neeley, Stacia: J 10
Dunn, Jr., John: MD, J 03
Dunphy, Jane: E 14
Dunton, Patsy: E 33

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 357

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 357

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Duperron, Lucile: W 5
Duprey, Wendy: MW 2, N 16
Durham Oldmixon, Katherine: PF
Durst, Russel: J 09
Dutcher, Violet: B 32
Dvorak, Kevin: J 06
Dwiggins, Jill: A 13
Dwyer, Sarah: W 11
Dyer, Patricia: G 17
Dykema, Meghan: RNF

Estrem, Heidi: B 06
Etlinger, Sarah: D 03
Evans, Ashley: I 31
Evans, Donna: D 06
Evans, Jason: F 15
Evans, Jonathan: C 35
Evans, Kathryn: H 19
Eves, Rosalyn: B 05
Eyman, Douglas: W 9

F
E
Earle, Chris: N 20
Eble, Michelle: B 27
Ede, Lisa: L 34
Edenfield, Avery: F 31
Edgington, Anthony: RNF
Edwards, Jerome: C 19
Edwards, Michael: IP, C 22
Edwards, Rachel: C 02
Edwards Patterson, Amy: N 33
Efthymiou, Andrea Rosso: I 21
Ehmann Powers, Christa: AW 8, FSIG 15
Elbow, Peter: B 02, F 37, TSIG 5
Elder, Cristyn L: FSIG 16
Elder, David: QRN
Elliot, Norbert: A 14, F 24, K 32, L 06
Ellis, Erik: I 25
Ellis, Lindsay: B 17
Elmer, Laura: QRN
Elston, M. Melissa: L 11
Emmert, Mark: G 31
Emmons, Kimberly: A 06
Encinas, Abraham: J 08
Engbers, Chad: A 19
Engel, Andy: N 16
Engel, Steven: I 22
Enoch, Jessica: MW 3, D 08, G 02
Enriquez-Loya, Ayde: L 21
Ensor, Lavina: D 10
Eodice, Michele: A 06, C 08, J 16
Epelbaum, Diana: A 37, N 04
Epps-Robertson, Candace: B 11
Erickson, Joe: B 20
Ericsson, Patricia: F 20
Ernster, Tom: I 19
Esposito, Lauren: M 30

Fadde, Peter J.: H 15
Faery, Rebecca Blevins: W 1
Fair, Meghan: RNF
Fallon, Brian: J 11
Fargo Ahern, Kati:W 12, B 16
Faris, Michael J.: L 04
Farley, David: D 13
Farley, Jame: J 30
Farmer, Frank: J 18
Faulk, LaToya: I 01
Faulkner, Julie: I 25
Faunce, Rob: D 04
Feak, Christine: N 15
Fedeczko, Wioleta: C 23
Feder-Lewis, Sonia: FSIG 9
Fedukovich, Casie: RNF
Feigenbaum, Paul: MW 9
Felice, Amanda: RNF
Fels, Dawn: M 02
Feltenberger, Alaina: L 25
Ferdinand, Wynne: L 05
Ferdinandt Stolley, Amy: A 33
Fernandes, Marino: L 24
Fernandez, Miriam: G 10
Ferreira-Buckley, Linda: F 03, F16
Ferrel, Thomas: B 10
Fields, Amanda: I 16
Figueiredo, Sergio: M 22
Fink, Ben: H 31
Finley, Dawn: A 23
Finn, Heather: F 21
Fiorenza, Mary: QRN
Fisher, Rick: H 17
Fishman, Jenn: QRN, E 05, F 03
Fishman, Teddi: C 20
Fitzgerald, Devon: E 22
Fitzgerald, Jeff: N 17

358

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 358

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Fitzgerald, Lauren: D 09
Flash, Pamela: N 11
Flautt, Megan: G 26
Fleckenstein, Kristie: CWS, I 02, J 02
Fleischer, Cathy: G 05
Fletcher, Lane: K 33
Flinchbaugh, Kerri: QRN
Flynn, Elizabeth: L 34
Fodrey, Crystal: N 09
Fofana-Kamara, Modu: E 13
Fogle-Young, Elizabeth: C 13
Fontaine, Sheryl: B 32
Forbes Larabee, Melissa: C 34
Formo, Dawn: M 10
Fornario, Jana: B 30
Forster, Abby: B 24
Forsthoefel, Jennifer: B 14
Fortune, Ron: C 15
Foster, Helen: A 34, TSIG 15
Fotinakes, Brian: G 21
Fowler, Letitia: C 03
Fox, Steve: G 29
Fox, Tom: H 10
Fraiberg, Steven: D 11
Fraizer, Dan: L 17
Franco, Sarah B.: G 19
Frank, Natasha: M 26
Franklin, Nathan: N 02
Frazier, Mackenzie: AW 11
Fredlund, Katherine: H 18
Fredricksen, James: K 08
Freeman, Traci: E 21
Freudensprung, Macey: RNF
Friedman, Sandie: F 04
Friedman, Tara: G 17
Friedow, Alison: N 06
Friend, Christina: J 32
Frost, Alanna: QRN, C 17
Frost, Erin Clark: D 18
Frost, McLaughlin: M 13
Fullwood, Kendra: J 18
Fulps, David: J 08
Fulwiler, Megan: RFP
Furrow, Hannah: RNF

G
Gabor, Catherine: L 19
Gabriel, Susan: K 04

Gadner, Clint: E 36
Gage, Scott: I 02
Gainer, Kim: IP, A 15
Galante, Nicole: E 31
Galin, Jeff: IP, A 15, FSIG 6
Gallagher, Chris: G 05
Gallagher, Jamey: N 13
Gallagher, John: W 11
Gallaher, Robin, RNF
Gallegos, Juan: AW 12, K 15
Gannett, Cinthia: W 5
Garcia, Mike: RNF
Garcia, Romeo: AW 12
Garrett, Bre: D 01
Garrett, Denise: M 16
Garriott, Deidre: J 30
Gartner, Matthew: B 28
Garvey, Pamela: L 23
Garza, Susan: G 06
Gatta, Oriana: A 29
Gatto, Roseanne: AW 13
Gavaskar, Vandana: M 11
Gebhardt-Burns, Susan: L 31
Geiger II, T J: AW 2
Geller, Anne Ellen: J 25, FSIG 6
George, Diana: H 10
Gerald, Amy: I 08
Gerben, Chris: E 03
Gerdes, Rebecca: A 19
Gere, Anne Ruggles: E 07, G 07, I 23
Getchell, Kristen: D 07
Getto, Guiseppe: N 02
Ghosh, Shreelina: G 26
Giberson, Greg: H 03
Gibson, Keith: G 21, FSIG 15
Gierdowski, Dana: G 12
Gillam, Alice: F 31
Gillespie, Paula: H 36, J 06
Gilliland, Betsy: I 22
Gilman, Holly: M 09
Gilmor, Robert: A 29
Giltrow, Janet: D 34
Gilyard, Keith: D 11, F 37
Ginsburg, Rebecca: W 10
Giordano, Joanne: W 4, D 02
Girardi, Tamara: I 09
Girshin, Thomas: D 28
Glade, Fiona: D 21
Glau, Gregory: W 7, J 03
Gleason, Barbara: L 05

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 359

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 359

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Glenn, Cheryl: E 36, G 02, H 33
Godbee, Beth: B 10
Goen-Salter, Sugie: L 27
Gogan, Brian: B 09
Goggin, Maureen Daly: C 20
Goggin, Peter: K 20
Gold, David: MW 3
Gold, Matthew: K 14
Goldblatt, Eli: MW 9, C 02
Golden, Michelle: M 30
Goldstein, Danielle: N 12
Goldthwaite, Melissa: K 30, FSIG 22
Golkowska, Krystyna: N 27
Gomes, Mathew: G 10
Gong, Gwendolyn: J 05
Gonzales Howell, Nicole: F 22
Goodwin, Benjamin: B 01
Gordon, Barbara: E 01
Gorelick, Risa P.: RNF, C 26, F 35
Gorzelsky, Gwen: MW 2, QRN, L 26
Gossett, Kathie: AW 6, K 14
Gottschalk Druschke, Caroline: G 09
Graban, Tarez Samra: K 12
Grabill, Jeff: W 2, AW 10, B 03, C 29
Graff, Harvey J.: B 35
Graham, Greg: A 19
Grandy, Travis: W 11
Grant, Abigail: I 09
Grant, David M.: M 22
Grant, John: I 03
Grant, Leonard: B 09
Graves, Heather: W 5, J 05
Graves, Roger: E 04
Gray, Jennifer: J 11
Gray, Mary: D 26
Gray Schwartz, Gwen: L 17
Graziano, Leigh: L 26
Green, Andrew: L 22
Green, Ann: N 13
Green, Nicole: C 12
Green, Sally: MW 8
Green Jr, David: D 11
Greene, Jeffrey David: L 16
Greenman, Patricia: RNF
Greer, Jane: N 10
Greer, Jennifer: MW 6
Grego, Rhonda: E 36, F 16, FSIG 17
Gresham, Morgan: TSIG 7
Grettano, Teresa: RFP
Griffin, June: I 18

Griffiths, Brett: N 25
Grimm, Nancy: B 10
Grobman, Laurie: AW 10, C 03
Grogan, Jared: MW 2
Gross, Allison: A 32
Grosskopf, Wendy: RNF, N 26
Grouling, Jennifer: K 10
Gruber, David: W 12
Gruwell, Leigh: I 02
Gubele, Rose: F 19, K 16
Guenzel, Steffen: N 14
Guest Pryal, Katie Rose: D 34
Guinot Varty, Nicole: D 29
Gulshan, Rima: K 20
Guneyli, Virginia: N 21
Gunner, Jeanne: B 22
Gunsberg, Ben: G 07
Gunter, Kim: L 08
Gurley, Anna: K 28
Gutierrez, Kristina: RNF
Guy Jr., Alfred E.: D 09
Guzman, Joelle: M 08

H
Haas, Angela: W 8, E 29, L 11
Haas, Christina: A 25, D 35
Haas, Lynda: F 24
Haas, Molly: F 36
Haas, Valerie: F 09
Hackelton, Devon: E 18
Haddix, Marcelle: B 11
Hadlock, Erin: W 14
Hagood, Grace: G 18
Halbritter, Bump: W 13, F 05
Halbritter, Bump: W 13
Hall, Ashley: A 13
Hall, Christina: A 04
Hall, E. Ashley: AW 6
Hall, Jonathan: MW 5, AW 4, K 12
Hall, R. Mark: E 09
Haller, Cynthia: A 09
Halloran, S. Michael: C 04
Hamilton, Heather: N 23
Hammerbeck, Mary: A 23
Hammond, Michaella: C 21
Hancock, Nicole: B 05
Hankerson, Mark: M 11
Hanlon-Baker, Patti: W 6, I 06

360

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 360

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Hanson, Joleen: A 08
Hanstedt, Paul: K 31
Hardin, Joe: F 13
Harker, Michael: J 13
Harley, Kyle: A 12
Harrington, Kathy: W 5
Harrington, Paula: D 32
Harrington, Susanmarie: J 25
Harris, Christopher: N 32
Harris, Heidi: I 25
Harris, Joseph: F 30
Harris, Sarah: H 29
Harrison, Kimberly: C 05
Hart, D Alexis: W 14, K 19
Hart-Davidson, William: I 30, K 14, M 07
Hartmann, Laura: L 14
Haruch, Amanda: H 20
Hassan, Amir: I 13
Hassel, Holly: W 4, D 02
Hastings, Phyllis: W 10, B 07, F 28
Haswell, Richard: C 10
Hausmann, Jessica: H 08
Hawisher, Gail: M 03
Hawk, Byron: B 19
Hawker, Elaine: I 29
Hawkins, Gary: B 18
Hayashi, Karla: E 15
Hayden, Wendy: MW 3, M 04
Hayes, John R.: D 35
Hays, Elaine: RNF, C 17
Hazard, Bob: W 14
He, Linjing: N 03
Heaney, April: H 17
Heard, Matthew: K 21
Hebert, Angelle: L 12
Heckathorn, Amy: D 21
Hedengren, Mary: H 18
Heffner, Jessica: E 26
Heifferon, Barbara A.: TSIG 20
Heilker, Paul: F 11
Heilman, Christine: QRN
Heller, Mike: W 1, K 30
Helmers, Marguerite: RNF
Helquist, Melissa: E 19
Hembrough, Tara: RNF
Henderson, Gae Lyn: RFP
Henderson, Sue: E 04
Hendricks, Marianna: AW 11
Hendrickson, Brian: AW 10
Henry, Sharon: A 12

Hensley, Anna: F 22
Herb, Amelia: G 17
Hernandez, Carlos: G 18
Herndl, Carl: H 13
Herrington, TyAnna: W 2, E 10
Hesford, Wendy: J 33
Hesp, Annie: G 07
Hess, Susan: A 06
Hesse, Doug: W 1, A 36
Hewett, Beth: AW 8, I 18, FSIG 15
Hickman, Amy: I 16
Hickman, Zachery C.: I 15
Hicks, Amy: L 20
Hidalgo, Alexandra: AW 12, H 15
Higgins, Eric: D 26
Hill, Heather: C 13
Hill, Matt: J 31
Hill, Michael: H 11
Hillard, Donora: D 10
Hinrichs, Danielle: N 24
Hinshaw, Wendy: W 10, J 33
Hinton, Corrine: H 26
Hirsch, Jerrold: AW 10, C 24
Hirsu, Lavinia: G 20
Hoag, Trevor: L 15
Hobbs, Catherine: AW 10, C 24
Hobmeier, Amanda: C 16
Hochman, Will: D 31
Hodges Hamilton, Amy: C 23, J 23
Hodgson, Justin: RNF, F 05
Hoermann, Jacquelyn: N 04
Hoge, Charles: I 22
Holding, Cory: W 10, G 22
Holdstein, Deborah: D 28
Holland, Nikki: E 17
Holmes, Ashley: N 11
Holmes, Steve: RNF
Holt, Karen: I 29
Homan, Elizabeth: E 32
Hood, Carra Leah: D 30
Hooper, Emily: N 31
Hoover, Ryan: L 30
Horner, Bruce: W 7, G 33, I 26, N 12, TSIG 3
Horner, Win: H 33
Horning, Alice: A 09
House, Veronica: MW 8, B 13
Howard, Rebecca Moore: AW 2, D 19
Howard, Samantha: C 27
Howell, Linda: M 21
Howes, Emma: N 04

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 361

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 361

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Howes, Franny: J 26
Hudson, David: J 17
Hudson, Joshua: F 19
Huffman, Debrah: A 09, TSIG 4
Hugar, Ronald: RNF
Hum, Sue: CWS
Hunt, Jonathan: I 06
Hunter, Kathleen R.: C 26
Hunter, Rik: N 03
Huntsman, Sherena: J 20
Huse, Heidi: F 04
Huston, Dan: AW 14
Hutchinson, Glenn: M 06
Hutchison, Alan: D 07
Hyman, David: E 31
Hyman, John: M 02
Hyrns, Samantha: H 03

I
Ihara, Rachel: B 28
Inayatulla, Shereen: H 18
Ingalls, Rebecca: M 27
Inman, Joyce: E 06
Inoue, Asao B.: AW 9, G 10, I 32
Irish, Robert: I 24, TSIG 9
Irvin, Lennie: I 05, N 11
Isaacs, Emily: L 06
Ives, Lindsey: M 31

J
Jach, Christine Masters: F 29
Jack, Jordynn: MW 3, D 34
Jackson, Gerald: RNF, G 04
Jackson, James: K 23
Jackson, Rachel: K 09
Jackson, Rebecca: J 03
Jacobi, Tobi: W 10, E 05
Jamali Ashtiani, Maryam: K 09
James, Kedra: K 02
James, Mitchell: I 09
Jamieson, Sandra: RNF, AW 2, A 34, D 19
Jamsen, Kirsten: G 29
Janangelo, Joseph: H 28, N 08
Jang, Sandra: W 14
Jankens, Adrienne: MW 2, QRN
Jaramillo Santoy, Janie: B 30

Jarratt, Susan C: B 19, E 34
Jeney, Cynthia: M 27
Jeng, Way: RNF
Jenkins, Trish: F 14
Jensen, Amber: W 15
Jensen, Erin: J 20
Jensen, Kyle: C 15
Jensen, Tim: E 27
Jernquist, Kathleen: L 27
Jerome, Emani: L 27
Jerskey, Maria: MW 5
Jerz, Dennis G.: G 01
Jewell, Richard: N 26
Jing, Pan: N 22
Johnsen, Heidi: W 7
Johnson, Jennifer: RNF, M 12
Johnson, June: C 11
Johnson, Karen: MW 9
Johnson, Kristine: K 28
Johnson, Matthew S. S.: D 15
Johnson, Nan: C 04, D 08
Johnson, T. R.: H 34
Johnson Gerendas, Carol: J 10
Johnson-Shull, Lisa: C 35
Johnston, Emily: J 27
Jolayemi, Elaine: N 33
Jolliffe, David: A 22
Jolly, Peggy: G 24
Jonaitis, Leigh: N 33
Jones, Christina: W 11
Jones, Don: J 13
Jones, Ed: A 35
Jones, Elizabeth L.: F 07
Jones, Karianne: M 32
Jones, Libby Falk: W 1, K 30
Jordan, Ethan: RNF
Jordan, Heather: RNF
Jordan, Jay: W 2, F 37
Jordan, Jerrica: RNF
Jordan, Kerri: D 05
Jordan, Zandra: I 32
Jory, Justin M: D 31
Jukuri, Stephen: F 17
Jung, Julie: W 6, I 28

K
Kahler, Jason: I 31
Kahn, Seth: RFP, FSIG 10

362

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 362

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Kail, Harvey: B 12
Kaiser Lee, Karen: M 27
Kalin, Jason: M 15
Kang, Yu-Kyung: G 22
Kania-Gosche, Beth: B 34
Karcher, Mary: F 09
Karega, Joy: G 03
Karr, Andrew: L 10
Kastner, Stacy: J 01
Katz, Susan: W 3
Kaufman, Erica: A 37
Kaufman, O. Brian: MW 3, TSIG 12
Kaufman, Rona: B 17
Kavadlo, Jesse: C 21
Kavanoz, Suzan Hatipoglu: W 5
Kay, Les: H 01
Kays, Trent M: N 18
Kazan, Tina: L 19
Keane, Kelly: N 33
Kearns, Judith: D 20
Keating, Bevan: L 01
Keeling, Bret: F 26
Keller, Daniel: K 24
Keller, Rod: I 29
Kelly, Mike: N 06
Kelly-Riley, Diane: RNF, A 26, F 24
Kenaga, Heidi: MW 2
Kendall Theado, Connie: L 07
Kennedy, Tammie: W 6
Kerr, Tom: W 10
Khadka, Santosh: AW 2
Khost, Peter: E 31
Khoury, Nicole: M 26
Kiernan, Julia: W 5
Kill, Melanie: L 29
Kim, Matthew: L 20
Kim, Soo Hyon: F 27
Kimball, A. Samuel: C 20
King, Carie: K 25
King, Lisa: E 29
King, Matt: C 25
Kinloch, Valerie: B 11
Kinney, Kelly: AW 2
Kinsey, Valerie: N 10
Kinyon, Kamila: L 24
Kirk, Sarah: W 7, L 05
Kirkland, David: C 07
Kirklighter, Cristina: AW 12
Kiser, Kacie: MW 5, B 23
Kitalong, Karla Saari: F 04

Kittle Autry, Meagan: B 31
Kjesrud, Roberta: D 05
Klabnik, Steve: A 11
Klages, Marisa: N 33
Klausman, Jeffrey: W 4, H 28
Klein, Jennifer: F 02
Klein, Michael J.: IP, B 04
Kleinfeld, Elizabeth: AW 2, J 16
Kline, Sonia: QRN, H 06
Klotz, Sarah: K 11
Knight, Melinda: L 06
Knippling, James: A 16
Knowlton, Ginger: MW 8
Knutson, Debra: N 24
Koch, Robert: D 33
Koehler, Adam: AW 13
Kohn, Liberty: H 31
Kohnen, Angela: F 04
Kolb, Leigh: G 24
Kontny, Jennifer: L 02
Koons, Kenneth: C 28
Kopec, Lauren: L 12
Kopelson, Karen: W 6
Kopic, Kristina: G 30
Kopp, Bryan: K 13
Kopp, Drew: H 20
Kordonowy, Gwen: I 14
Kory, Fern: A 28
Koshnick, Damian: B 06
Koupf, Danielle: L 09
Kovaleski Byrnes, Mary: G 30
Kovalyova, Natalia: H 04
Kozlow, Bridget: J 19
Kozma, Cara: N 14
Kraemer, Vanessa: C 16
Krall-Lanoue, Aimee: C 22
Kramer, Tereza Joy: F 26
Krause, Steven: G 01
Kreimeyer, Breanna: M 29
Krieger, Barbara Jo: D 24
Kroll, Barry: AW 14
Kroll, Keith: AW 14
Kuebrich, Ben: A 03
Kuechenmeister, Bobby: RNF
Kuechenmeister, Elizabeth: RNF
Kuhne, Michael: F 23
kumar, hari stephen: W 11
Kumar, Rita: L 10
Kunka, Jennifer: L 33
Kuralt, Karen: L 01

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 363

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 363

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Kurtyka, Faith: K 10
Kushner, Shimona: B 12
Kynard, Carmen: AW 9, E 20

L
Labadie, Suzanne: M 28
LaFrance, Michelle: L 27
Lagman, Eileen: M 03
Lalicker, William B: W 7, M 25
Lamanna, Carrie: J 15
Lamberton, L. Jill: H 02
Lambke, Abigail: B 08
Lamonica, Claire: A 06
Lamos, Steve: A 30
Lamsal, Tika: RNF, J 12
Lancaster, Zak: G 08
Landrum-Geyer, Denise: C 23
Lane, Suzanne: E 14, TSIG 9
Langdon, Lance: E 34
Langstraat, LIsa: W 14, H 26, FSIG 12
Lannin, Amy: J 17
Lape, Noreen: W 5
Laquintano, Tim: QRN, I 30
Larson, Brian: RNF
Larson, Stephanie: N 28
Lathan, Rhea Estelle: B 35
Latta, Corey: L 26
Launspach, Sonja: A 02
Lauren, Ben: C 05
Lavalle, Thomas: MW 5
LaVecchia, Christina: H 01
Lawson, Daniel: J 26
Lay, Ethna D.: RNF
Layne, Alexandra: RNF, D 25
Lazcano-Pry, Yazmin: B 30
Leahy, Elizabeth: QRN, M 31
Leake, Eric: N 20
Learned, Nicholas: F 17
Leary, Chris: A 37
Leary, Christopher: I 28
LeCluyse, Christopher: E 21
Lee, Helen: D 14
Lee, Kimberly: L 21
Lee, Melanie: K 11
Lemaire, Eva: W 5
Lenhardt, Allison Kellar: A 20
Leon, Kendall: AW 12, D 23
Leonard, Scott: AW 1

Lerner, Neal: AW 7, TSIG 9, J 25
Les, Perelman: A 14
Lessner, Steve: W 13
Letcher, Mark: FSIG 20
Leuschen, Kathleen T: I 20
Leverenz, Carrie: J 10
Levy, Daisy: W 8, J 02
Levy, Matthew: D 28
Lewis, Brian: MW 4
Lewis, Michael: E 23
Lewis Gaillet, Lynee: F 03
Li, Shuwen: B 34
Licastro, Amanda: A 37
Liggett, Sarah: D 05
Lindemann, Erika: G 34
Lindenman, Heather: N 24
Lindquist, Julie: W 13, G 33
Lindsley, Thomas: I 19
Lipson, Carol: H 12
Lister, Lisa: I 21
Litterio, Lisa: G 11
Liu, Yingqin: RNF
Livingston, Kathleen: K 07
Lloyd, Wanda: J 19
Loan, Jason: MW 7, A 13
Lockett, Alexandria: L 04
Lockhart, Tara: E 02
Logan, Shirley: H 33
Loncharich, Les: J 27
Long, Elenore: MW 9
Looker, Samantha: QRN
Loomis Pappas, Stephanie: E 01
Lopez, Ann-Marie: J 04
Lopez, Efren: J 08
Lopez, Tania: C 05
Lorimer, Rebecca: A 07
Lotier, Kristopher: D 14
Love, Patrick: RNF
Lovejoy, Kim Brian: AW 3
Lu, Min-Zhan: W 2, G 33, I 32
Lucas, Brad: M 23
Luce, A.V.: RNF
Ludlow, Jody: L 13
Lunsford, Karen: IP, C 35
Lunsford, Ronald: J 23
Lutz, Barbara: D 22
Lydic, David: W 4
Lykken, Laurie: MW 4
Lyles, Karla: D 32
Lynch, Dennis: F 17, H 13, L 02

364

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 364

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Lynch, Paul: B 08
Lynch-Biniek, Amy: RFP
Lynn, Morgan: QRN

M
Macauley, William: RNF, L 15
Macdonald, Christine: MW 8
MacDonald, Michael T: N 12
Mack, Nancy: AW 13, C 30
MacKinder, Dave: MW 2
Macklin, Mandy: F 01
Maddalena, Kate: B 31
Madden, Shannon: A 27
Maddox, Christine: RNF
Madritch, John: F 08
Mahala, Daniel: E 27
Mahle-Grisez, Lisa: M 02
Mahon, Wade: L 19
Mahoney, Kevin: FSIG 10, M 02
Maid, Barry: A 14, FSIG 7
Mailloux, Steven: C 04
Majewski, John: B 06
Malaibari, Arwa: J 12
Malaibari, Bushra: J 30
Malcolm, Katie: M 09
Malenczyk, Rita: D 09
Malouf, Andrea: A 24
Mann, April: J 11
Manship, Lacy: E 16
Mao, LuMing: H 12
Mapes, Aimee: M 12
Margaret, Ross: M 13
Maricle, Jonathan: H 23
Marinara, Martha: D 04, FSIG 5
Markins, Jason: I 04
Marko, Tamera: G 30, H 10
Marks-Dubbs, Kaitlin: G 13
Markwardt, Daylanne: K 22
Marlow, Jennifer: RFP, J 15
Maroudas, Carla: W 14, N 33
Marshall Bowen, Lauren: F 18
Martin, Bruce: K 33
Martin, Jennifer: H 14
Martin, Libby: E 34
Martinez, Aja: AW 12, H 15
Martinez, Diane: J 12
Martinez, Laura: QRN
Martins, David: W 2, D 16, I 26, N 27

Marwitz, Mary: N 29
Marzluf, Phillip: I 15
Mascle, Deanna: C 13
Masri Eberhard, Jessica: E 28
Mastrangelo, Lisa: E 08
Mathieu, Paula: H 10, K 07
Mathieu, Paula: MW 9
Matsuda, Paul Kei: W 2
Mattson, Kyle: G 04
Matzke, Aurora: D 01
Mauriello, Nicholas: D 33
Maxson, Jeffrey: G 03
Maxwell, Jason: L 15
Mayes, Patricia: N 05
Maylath, Bruce: W 2, E 10
Mays, Chris: I 28
McAfee, James: I 10
McBeth, Mark: B 29
McCabe, Anne: W 5
McCaslin, Joseph: E 11
McClure, Lisa: RNF
McClure, Randall: D 19
McCracken, I. Moriah: J 03
McDaniel, Jamie: D 04
McDermott, Lydia: RNF, H 21
McDonald, Catherine: E 12
McDonald, Christina: C 28, M 18
McDonald, James: C 06
McDonald, Rob: M 18
McDonald, Wayne: A 12
McDoniel, Larry: L 23
McElroy, Stephen: K 23
McEvoy, Kathleen: I 08
McFarlane, Nicole: K 09
McGeehan, Rebecca: M 19
McGinnis, Michael Lee: D 03
McGlaun, Sandee: W 1
McGlothin, Dennis: RNF
McGuire, Andrew: B 24
McKenzie, Andrea: I 10
McKenzie, CB: A 02
McKinnis, John: L 15
McMillan, Laurie: AW 11. I 17
McMullen-Light, Mary: A 20, FSIG 6
McNair, Lisa: W 2
McQuaide, Stacy Bell: W 10
Meadows, Barrie: J 11
Mecklenburg-Faenger, Amy: G 14
Medina, Cruz Nicholas: QRN
Medina, Dylan: N 17

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 365

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 365

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Meghdadi, Ali: F 24
Mehler, Josh: RNF, L 30
Mehta, Suhaan: K 26
Meier, Joyce: G 21
Mejía, Jaime Armin: B 30
Mellas, Tessa: N 23
Meloncon, Lisa: I 18
Melzer, Dan: D 21, FSIG 6
Mendelsohn, Sue: L 09
Mendenhall, Annie: K 22
Mendenhall, Lora: TSIG 5
Mendoza, Robert: D 32
Mendoza, Ruben: M 08
Merys, Gina M.: RNF, F 35
Metcalf, Amy Ann: C 16
Metsker, Jennifer: E 07
Meyer, Craig A.: I 12
Meyer, Kelly: L 13
Meyer, Verne: M 25
Micciche, Laura: E 30, F 31
Michaud, Michael: I 17
Middlebrook, Geoffrey: H 05
Middleton, Joyce Irene: H 33, L 34
Miecznikowski, Cynthia: W 15, F 16
Mihut, Ligia: W 5, M 03
Mikoda, Carol: RNF
Milbourne, Chelsea Redeker: N 03
Miles, Casey: F 12
Miley, Michelle: D 26
Miller, Benjamin: A 37, FSIG 18, M 17
Miller, Carolyn R.: D 34
Miller, Chloe: H 19
Miller, Elisabeth: A 24
Miller, Emily: C 28, M 18
Miller, Keith D.: A 34
Miller, Kristopher: RNF
Miller, Matthew: K 03
Miller, Richard: C 14, K 03
Miller, Robert: H 09
Miller, Susan: D 28
Miller, Thomas: B 22
Miller-Cochran, Susan: AW 9, H 07
Milner, Laura: N 29
Milotta, Lorin: C 12
Milu, Esther: I 10
Min, Young-Kyung: K 12
Mina, Lilian: RNF
Minock, Mary: PF
Minter, Deborah: I 18
Miss, Angela: E 25

Mitchell, Sally: H 35
Mix-Thibault, Julie: MW 2
Mlynarczyk, Rebecca: I 10
Moberly, Matt: H 19
Mock, Kristin: RNF
Moeller, Marie: D 18
Mogul, Scott: TSIG 20
Molina, Vanessa: C 26
Molloy, Cathryn: RNF, K 15
Monberg, John: K 07
Monberg, Terese Guinsatao: K 07, FSIG 3
Moneysmith, Jayne: B 13
Mooney, Diane: L 16
Moore, Jessie: B 03
Moore, Miriam: M 13
Moore, Shaun: A 04
Moore, Shawn: L 11
Moore Howard, Rebecca: C 08
Morais, Katia: C 22
Moreland, Casie: H 11
Moreland, Kim: J 27
Moreno, Renee: FSIG 2
Morey, Sean: F 13
Moriarty, Tom: A 34, TSIG 15
Morley, Miranda: L 22
Morris, Janine: RNF
Morris, Jill: W 09, F 09
Morrison, Becky: D 29
Mortensen, Peter: E 04
Moskovitz, Cary: AW 5, G 28
Moss, Beverly: W 6, K 02
Motta-Roth, Désirée: I 15
Mountford, Roxanne: W 6
Moy, Raymond: J 29
Mueller, Derek: MD, B 20
Muhammad, Rashidah: AW 3
Muhlhauser, Paul: K 27
Mukavetz, Andrea Riley: W 8
Mulally, Dauvan: H 04
Mullen, Mark: H 27
Mumpower, Greg: QRN
Munch, Evan: N 28
Mutnick, Deborah: AW 10, C 24
Mya, Poe: AW 9
Myatt, Alice: W 15
Myers, Amanda: QRN
Myers, Kelly: I 06
Myers, Nancy: CWS, J 01
Myers, Whitney: J 10
Myers Zawacki, Terry: N 15

366

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 366

2/1/12 12:24 PM

N
Nadeau, Jean-Paul: W 4, F 32
Nakamaru, Sarah: MW 5
Nakaue, Mitch: RNF, B 25
Napoleone, Anna Rita: QRN
Narayan, Madhu: W 8, A 01, K 07
Nassar, Dave: D 29
Nastal, Jessica: N 05
Navarro, Federico: N 03
Navickas, Kate: AW 2, F 22
Neaderhiser, Stephen: H 04
Neal, Michael: E 19
NeCamp, Samantha: D 10
Neeley, Stacia Dunn: J 10
Neff, Joyce: M 20
Neiderhiser, Justine: I 23
Nelms, Gerald: AW 1, A 06
Nelson, Julie: F 31
Nemec, Jason: H 01
Nester, Nancy: F 08
Neupane, Dhruba: J 07
Newbold, Webster: AW 8
Newkirk, Thomas: AW 13, N 35
Nichols, Garrett: F 12
Nichols, Greg: G 30
Nichols, Julie: I 01
Nichols, Randy: K 13
Nickoson, Lee: E 05
Nielsen-Dube, Kathryn: AW 4
Niestepski, Michelle: MW 3, C 16
Nieveen Phegley, Missy: N 30
Nihlawi, Amina: K 08
Nishimura, Amy: E 15
Nora, Krystia: N 26
Norbert, Elliot: AW 9
Norcross, Nanelle: E 27
Northway, Kara: E 21
Novak, Matthew W.: W 8
Nowacek, Rebecca S.: D 34, N 06
Noyes, Heidi Maria: C 17

O
O’Brien Gerhart, Casey: N 12
O’Connor, John: J 22
O’Malley, Jennifer: N 32
Ocasio, Alexander: F 36

Oddo, John: A 25
Odell, Lee: W 3
Oenbring, Raymond: I 21
Ogundipe, Olumide: J 05
Oleksiak, Timothy: L 31
Olinger, Andrea: F 06
Olivas, Sarah: B 30
Oliver, Matthew: M 20
Oliver, Veronica: M 14
Oliverio, Kathy: L 01
Olson, Annie: N 07
Olson, Bobbi: L 13
Olson, Jon: G 34
Olson, Wendy: D 16
Omizo, Ryan: F 29
Oppegaard, Brett: RNF, N 11
Ore, Ersula: I 02
Orenstein, Abby: C 02
Ortoleva, Matthew: C 29
Osborne, Jeff: B 26
Oswal, Sushil K.: RFP, AW 8, I 18, FSIG 15
Otto, Peggy: E 13
Outland, Ruth: N 09
Oviedo, Ollie O.: RNF, F 35
Oweidat, Lana: K 11
Ozz, Robin: F 15

P
Pace, Tom: K 24
Pacton, Adam: J 15
Pagel, Myshie: QRN
Pagnac, Susan: M 29
Paine, Charles: H 08
Palmeri, Jason: F 30
Palmquist, Mike: E 36
Paltridge, Brian: W 5
Pandey, Iswari: N 21
Papay, Twila: I 04
Papoulis, Irene: W 1, K 30, TSIG 8
Papper, Carole Clark: AW 1
Paproth, Matt: W 3
Paraskevas, Cornelia: AW 11
Pardlow, Donald: RNF
Paretti, Marie: W 2
Parfitt, Matthew: L 17
Parish, Rachel: I 31
Parkhill, Alorie: J 09
Parks, Stephen: AW 10

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 367

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 367

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Parks, Steve: A 03, K 34
Parrish, Juli: RNF
Paschke-Johannes, Jeff: E 16
Paster, Denise: K 18
Paszek, Joe: MW 2
Patch, Paula: E 06
Patterson, Nancy: W 15
Patton, Martha D: G 28
Paudel, Hem: I 26
Pauly, Heather: H 25
Paz, Enrique: H 03
Pearson, Eden: D 07
Peary, Alexandria: B 01
Peckham, Irvin: A 20
Peeples, Tim: A 34, TSIG 15
Pegram, Alexis: F 31
Pell, John: E 03
Pemberton, Michael: RNF, A 26
Pennell, Michael: C 29
Penniman, Matt: N 02
Pennington, Mary Beth: F 11
Pepper, Mark: H 23
Perales Escudero, Moises D.: G 08
Peralta Cortez, Maria: A 05
Perelman, Les: A 14, E 14, K 32
Perez, Chelsea: G 06
Perkins, Kasey: B 18
Perl, Sondra: A 37, L 34
Perolio, Jessica: C 21
Perrault, Sarah: K 20
Perry, Kathryn: M 25
Perryman-Clark, Staci: B 07
Peter, Mortensen: J 22
Peters, Brad: I 33
Peters, K.J.: F 24
Petersen, Jerry: D 06
Petit, Angela: L 30
Petrosino, Krista: C 17
Pfannenstiel, Nicole: N 31
Pflugfelder, Ehren: F 29
Phelps, Louise Wetherbee: D 20, TSIG 1, J 03
Philbrick, Ethan: J 02
Philbrook, Maxwell: I 07
Philipose, Tom: AW 13
Phillips, Aaron: RNF
Phillips, Amanda: G 18
Phillips, Talinn: QRN
Photinos, Christine: FSIG 9, L 12
Piano, Doreen: F 05
Pickle, Melody: C 21

Pierce, Kimberly: B 13
Pierce, Tom: M 31
Pietruszynski, Jeffrey: B 05
Pigg, Stacey: B 03
Pike, Sarah: F 25
Pilsch, Andrew: L 04
Pimentel, Octavio: AW 12, D 28, H 15
Pinkert, Laurie A: K 13
Pinter, Robbie: K 30
Pinzon, Blanca Yaneth Gonzalez: FS H
Pitera, Allegra: B 09
Pittendrigh, Nadya: G 09
Pizza, Joseph: E 25
Platt, Julie: B 18
Plemons, Anna: F 20
Poblete, Patricia: RNF
Poe, Mya: W 2, TSIG 9, I 32
Pond, Kristen: F 11
Popham, Susan: C 09
Portanova, Patricia: N 07
Portman-Daley, Joannah: C 29
Potter, Andrea: M 06
Potts, Liza: K 14
Powell, Annette: H 34
Powell, Katrina: J 33
Powell, Malea: W 8, A 01, FSIG 4
Powell, Rebecca: M 32
Powers, Elizabeth: A 16
Prendergast, Catherine: I 30
Preston, Jacqueline: QRN, C 34
Price, Margaret: TSIG 18
Price, Steve: D 05
Prins, Kristin: M 22
Prior, Paul: G 22
Propen, Amy: D 22
Puccio, Paul: E 36, I.33
Pueschner, Gordon: MW 4
Pugh, Melody: I 23
Pullman, George: K 36, N 21
Purdy, James: IP, D 19, I 30
Pyles, Rachel: E 33

Q
Qadir, Neelofer: W 11
Quackenbush, Nicole: C 01
Qualley, Donna: E 30
Queen, Bradley: I 14

368

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 368

2/1/12 12:24 PM

R
Rademaekers, Justin: G 27
Rai, Candice: G 09
Ramaswamy, Anushiya: H 21
Ramineni, Chaitanya: K 32
Ramirez, Cristina: N 21
Ramirez, Jenny: M 18
Ramirez-Dhoore, Dora: L 21
Ramsey, Chase: I 11
Rankins-Robertson, Sherry: I 27
Rao, Abhijit: F 25
Ratcliffe, Kris: H 33
Ratliff, Clancy: G 02
Raucci, John: N 05
Rawlins, Jacob: D 17
Ray, Brian: I 26
Read, Sarah: I 17
Redd, Teresa: FSIG 6
Reddicliffe, Mimi: N 10
Reddy, Nancy: F 18
Reed, Rachel: I 03
Refaei, Brenda: L 10
Rehberger, Dean: M 07
Reid, Alex: C 25
Reid, E. Shelley: F 34
Reid, Lynn: G 25
Reiff, Mary Jo: D 34
Reimer, Cody: D 25
Rein, Joseph: K 01
Relerford, Jimisha: K 22
Remedios, Sara: I 10
Remley, Dirk: W 3, A 20
Restaino, Jessica: F 30
Reyman, Jessica: IP, E 19
Reynolds, Dahliani: M 14
Reynolds, Nedra: C 29
Reynolds, Thomas: H 16
Reznizki, Michal: RNF
Rhoades, Georgia: L 08
Rhodes, Keith: J 14, FSIG 7
Ribero, Ana Milena: RNF
Rice, J. A.: K 21
Rice, Jeff: L 18, M 22
Rice, Jenny: B 16, L 18
Rice, Rich: W 5
Rice-Bailey, Tammy: A 21
Rich, Jennifer: K 15
Richards, Jessie: J 20

Richards, Rebecca: CWS
Richardson, Elaine: AW 3, C 07, FSIG 1
Richardson, Flourice: L 10
Richardson, Jennifer: N 01
Riche, David: N 08
Richie, David R.: F 21
Richmond, Tyler: G 10
Rickert, Thomas: L 18
Ricks, Tony: M 15
Ridolfo, Jim: M 07
Rieder, David: C 31
Rife, Martine: IP, W 8
Rifenburg, J. Michael: RNF
Rifenburg, James: G 26
Rifenburg, Michael: H 29
Rinard, Brenda: M 12
Ringer, Jeff: I 11
Rios, Gabriela: FSIG 16
Riss, Charles: C 27
Riss, Melissa: C 27
Risse, Derek: C 33
Ristich, Michael: C 33
Ristow, Ben: FSIG 18
Ritola, Tonya: QRN
Ritter, Kelly: RNF, MW 3, A 30, E 36
Rivait, Jessica: N 02
Rivera-Mueller, Jessica: L 13
Rivers, Nathaniel: B 08
Rix Wood, Henrietta: N 04
Roach, Danielle N.: E 28
Robb, Anna: F 02
Roberts, Leslie: W 4
Robertson, Liane: MW 2, F 34
Robillard, Amy: C 15
Robinson, Christine L.: RNF
Robinson, Monica: A 29
Robles, Vincent: B 20
Rochelle, Warren: C 18
Roderick, Ryan: E 33
Rodgers, Heather: F 29
Rodrigo, Rochelle: H 07, N 33
Rodriguez, John: K 17
Roe, Meghan: RNF, C 12
Roeder, Tara: AW 13
Roemer, Marjorie: J 09
Roen, Duane: I 27, C 10
Rogers, David: M 30
Rogers, Jaqueline McLeod: RNF, D 20
Rogers, Laura: W 10, F 28, TSIG 19
Rogers, Paul: AW 7, H 35

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 369

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 369

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Rohan, Liz: E 05
Rohman, Todd E.: F 06
Romney, Abraham: E 34
Ronald, Kate: E 03, J 14
Rood, Craig: K 28
Rook, Amanda: K 20
Roozen, Kevin: QRN, B 34
Roper, Kem: E 20
Rose, Mike: FS C
Rose, Shirley: E 36, M 24
Rosenberg, Lauren: RNF
Roser, Jan: I 05
Rosinski, Paula: B 03
Roskelly, Hephzibah: D 13, E 03, J 14
Ross, Derek: I 24
Ross, Kacey: M 16
Rossen-Knill, Deborah: TSIG 5
Roswell, Barbara: W 10, F 28
Rouillon, Vanessa: J 22
Rowe, Debbie: G 11
Rowntree, Miriam: M 10
Rubel, Linda: F 06
Rubenstein, Ilene: N 33
Ruecker, Todd: MW 5, D 02
Ruggles Gere, Anne: G 08, H 02
Ruiz, Iris D.: H 15
Rule, Hannah: RNF, J 02
Russell, David: D 17, G 32, FS K, FSIG 6
Russell, Lindsay Rose: W 6
Ruszkiewicz, Sheryl: W 9, F 09
Rutz, Carol: AW 7, C 11
Ryan, Cynthia: C 09
Ryan, Holly: J 24
Ryan, Leigh: W 15
Ryden, Wendy: TSIG 8
Rysdam, Sheri: C 35

S
Sabatino, Lindsay: L 22
Sackey, Donnie Johnson: W 8, A 01
Saenkhum, Tanita: MW 5, L 24
Salinas, Carlos: E 36
Salvatori, Mariolina: E 30
Samuels, Boba: W 5
Sandick, Phil: MW 7
Sano-Franchini, Jennifer: W 8, K 07
Sansing, Daniel: J 04
Sanyal, Maya: AW 2, J 16

Sanz, Blake: J 31
Sapp, David Alan: W 2
Sargent, M. Elizabeth: AW 11, F 34
Sasser, M. Tyler: M 30
Sauer, Geoffrey: K 14
Sawyer, LaToya: B 11
Scalise, Brandy: L 26
Scanlon, Molly: J 26
Scenters-Zapico, John: W 5
Schaberg, Petger: MW 8
Schaefer, Katherine: J 21
Schaefer, Shelby: F 24
Schafer, Robert: J 12
Schaffner, Spencer: MW 7
Schatz, Stephanie: D 23
Schell, Eileen: H 26, I 07
Schendel, Ellen: RNF, E 06
Scheurer, Erika: B 02
Schilb, John: B 19, L 06
Schiler, Karen: M 23
Schmidgall, Matthew: E 11
Schmidt, Katherine: A.05
Schnieder, Jeremy: QRN
Schonberg, Eliana: E 21
Schraufnagle, Doug: W 8
Schryer, Catherine F.: D 34
Schultz, Matthew: C 21, H 08
Schuyler, Susan: I 06
Schwartz, Michael: M 31
Schwegler, Robert: MW 3
Schweitzer, Leah: G 01
Scott, Blake: E 09
Scott, Mary: F 33
Scott, Meg: C 23
Scott-Copses, Meg: G 14
Scudder, Shana: I 20
Seas, Kristen: RNF
Seethaler, Ina: K 08
Seibel Trainor, Jennifer: W 6
Seigel, Marika: B 33
Seitz, David: C 30
Seitz, James: K 34
Selfe, Cynthia: W 2, C 14, E 32
Selznick, Hilary: I 01
Serviss, Tricia: AW 2, M 01
Shafer, Gregory: W 4
Shan, Wen: J 07
Shank, Dianna: N 14
Sharer, Wendy: B 27
Sharif, Aisha: K 26

370

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 370

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Sharma, Ghanashyam: J 07
Sharp-Hoskins, Kellie: D 18
Shaver, Lisa: H 02
Shaw-Draves, Conor: C 33
Shelton, Linda: I 01
Shepherd, Dawn: W 12
Shepley, Nathan: G 15
Sheridan, David: B 01
Sheridan, Mary P.: E 05
Sheriff, Stacey: L 29
Sherlock, Lee: C 34
Sherrill, John: B 33
Shipka, Jody: E 22
Shirk, Henrietta: K 15
Shuck, Gail: AW 4, B 23
Sias, Reva: H 02
Siebler, Kay: I 03
Sierra, Wendi: W 9
Silva, Mary Lourdes: RNF
Silver, Naomi: E 07, G 08
Silvestro, John: H 14
Simmons, Michele: K 05
Simpkins, Neil: N 08
Simpson, Steve: MW 5, TSIG 17, N 15
Singer, Nancy: G 29
Singh, Minal: A 10
Singh-Corcoran, Nathalie: I 06
Sipple, Susan: AW 5
Sirc, Geoffrey: L 18
Skinnell, Ryan: G 15
Skinner, Carolyn: M 04
Skinner, Rebecca: RNF, L 31
Skripsky, Sarah: H 08
Sloan, Philip: RNF
Sloane, Sarah Jane: G 16
Sloboda, Noel: J 24
Slomp, David: MW 2
Smith, Bradley: RNF
Smith, Cheryl C.: RNF
Smith, Christian: H 23
Smith, Julianne: E 08
Smith, Linda: G 16
Smith, Michelle: M 04
Smith, Trixie G.: RNF, F 12
Smith-Sitton, Lara: K 06
Smorol, Danielle: RNF
Smyth, Kathleen: C 06
Snead, Robin: W 12, G 12
Snyder, Todd: H 22
Sokoloff, Sharon: J 09

Soliday, Mary: F 30
Sommers, Jeff: AW 5
Sommers, Nancy: A 36
Sorapure, Madeleine: E 24
Soule, Leah: G 23
Southergill, Glen: M 08
Sparks, Corey: A 18
Sparks, Laura: G 20
Spellmeyer, Kurt: G 24
Spidell, Cathy M: FSIG 10
Spilka, Rachel: A 21
Spinner, Jenny: W 1
Spohrer, Erika: K 28
Sponenberg, Ashlie: H 34
Spring, Suzanne: B 17
Springsteen, Karen: W 14
Sproat, Ethan: D 25, TSIG 14
Spronk, Caitlan: L 04
St Pierre, Catherine: W 14
Staggers, Julie: C 18
Stahlnecker, Katie: H 19
Stallings, Lynne: M 10
Standridge, Emily: L 33
Stanfill, James: L 14
Stanford, Marlena: RNF
Stanley, Sarah: F 33
Stanton, Courtney: C 02
Stapel, Richard: RNF
Starfield, Sue: W 5
Starke-Meyerring, Doreen: W 2, D 16, E 10,
K 36
Statum, Andrew: A 37, M 17
Stavenhagen, W. Kurt: I 07
Stedman, Kyle: IP, B 16
Stegall, Sydney: MW 7, A 13
Steiner, Lindsay: J 05
Stephens, Yvonne: M 25
Stephenson, Brittany: AW 5
Stevenson, Heidi Ann: FSIG 10
Stewart, Joyce: H 17
Stewart, Shannon: I 08
Stigall, Natalie: K 33
Stillman-Webb, Natalie: G 04
Stinnett, Jerry: A 27
Stock, David: E 13
Stock, Patti: N 35
Stockman, Sebastian: E 16
Stolley, Karl: K 14
Stone, Jennifer: F 14
Stornaiuolo, Amy: D 27

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 371

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 371

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Stovall, John: A 29
Strain, Margaret: MW 3, D 23
Stremlau, Tonya: F 26
Strickland, Rachel: RNF
Sturman, Samantha: N 24
Sullivan, Patricia: B 08
Sullivan, Patricia-Suzanne: M 15
Sullivan, Patrick: W 4
Sullivan, Rachael: J 15
Summers, Sarah: G 34
Sunahara, Reid: F 15
Sundeen, Jim: J 27
Sura, Thomas: RNF
Sursavage, Mark: D 26
Sutton, Mark: RNF, N 32
Swarts, Jason: W 3, D 34
Swift, Jeff: B 31
Swilky, Jody: E 27
Swofford, Sarah: I 23
Sydelnik, Stefanie: J 21
Szerdahelyi, Judith: N 25
Szetela, Michelle: H 27
Szymanski, Erika: RNF

T
Taczak, Kara: MW 2, F 34
Tanski, Katherine: M 21
Tarabochia, Sandra: N 06
Tardiff, Michael: K 23
Taylor, Elaina: E 34
Taylor, Gigi: AW 4, A 33
Taylor, Tim: A 28
Tekobbe, Cindy: N 31
Ten Brink, Jeanette: H 05
Tesdell, Lee: C 06
Teslenko, Tatiana: W 5, K 05
Tess, Jessica: RNF, H 03
Teston, Christa: A 25
Teutsch, Chris: L 32
Thaiss, Chris: W 2, K 29, FSIG 6
Theado, Connie Kendall: W 5
Thelin, William: RFP, A 12
Thom-Arens, Nicole: F 02
Thomas, Alison: H 32
Thomas, Brennan: AW 11
Thomas, Susan: N 21
Thompson, Jo Ann: K 11
Thompson, Mark: M 19

Thompson, Roger: K 19
Thompson-Spires, Nafissa: G 23
Thornton, Jamie: RNF
Thorton, Jamie: D 27
Thoune, Darci: K 13
Tifarah Hadassah, O’Neill: W 14
Tinberg, Howard: W 4, D 24, F 32
Tinelli, Liz: B 20
Tirabassi, Katherine: MW 3
Titus, Megan: QRN
Tolar Burton, Vicki: FSIG 6
Tomlinson, Elizabeth: C 03
Toomey, Melissa: I 12
Torda, Lee: A 08
Toro, Janessa: K 03
Toscano, Rose Marie: F 06
Toth, Christopher: M 27
Townsend, Martha: G 31, FSIG 6, L 17
Trahan, Heather: G 27
Trapp, Joonna: I 33
Trauman, Ryan: K 14
Trauth, Erin: J 28
Trauth Taylor, Kathryn: G 27
Trent, Mary Alice: M 34
Trexler, Megan: E 17
Trimble, Thomas: MW 2
Trimbur, John: G 33, H 10
Troutman, Denise: AW 3
Tucker, Lisa: A 16
Tulley, Christine: H 30
Turnmeyer, Maria: F 01
Tweedie, Sanford: A 34

U
Uehling, Karen: FSIG 9, L 05
Urban, Andrew: L 02
Urbanski, Cynthia: L 12
Urbanski, Heather: RNF, I 05

V
Vaia, Lisa: A 37
Valdes, Aileen: J 06
Valdes, Denise: B 11
van de Graaf, Kara: C 31
VanDellon, Wendy: G 19
Vandenberg, Peter: C 06

372

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 372

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Vander Lei, Elizabeth: FSIG 11
Vanderslice, Stephanie: L 03
VanHaitsma, Pamela: D 08
VanKooten, Crystal: E 32
VanOsdol, Paige: D 08
Varley, Anna: H 25
Vasileiou, Lykourgos: I 04
Vee, Annette: E 24
Verhoeven, Betsy: J 24
Vetter, Matthew: D 30
Vian, Christopher: RNF
Vidali, Amy: C 01, TSIG 18
(Video), Students: K 29
Vieira, Kate: A 07, B 35, D 35, N 28
Villanueva, Victor: C 07, D 06, E 36
Villarreal, Michelle: G 06
Vincelette, Elizabeth: M 20
Vinson, Jenna: I 12
Virtue, Andrew: L 32
Vitanza, Victor: RNF, B 19, F 35
Vogel, Elizabeth: D 07
Vogtner, Jennifer: A 16
Voss, Julia: QRN
Vossler, Joshua: K 18

W
Waite, Jason: E 11
Waite, Stacey: K 34
Walker, Clay: N 16
Walker, Janice R.: RNF, D 19
Walker, Joyce: I 30
Walker, Paul: B 26
Wallace, David: D 04
Wallack, Nicole B.: AW 2
Waller, Jeannie: C 32
Wallin, Jonathan: D 25
Walling, Olivia: D 12
Wallis, Jule: FSIG 21
Walls, Douglas: D 27
Walter, John: D 25
Walters, Keith: A 22, G 16
Walters, Shannon: L 28
Wan, Amy: L 07
Wang, Bo: H 12
Wang, Stella: J 21
Wardle, Elizabeth: AW 11, D 34, E 09, TSIG
2, K 25
Ware, Jennifer: AW 6, G 12

Warner, Sterling: PI
Warnick, Chris: MW 3, G 14
Warnock, Scott: AW 5, I 18, FSIG 15
Warwick, Nicole: F 01
Warzecka, Zach: AW 11, H 20
Wastal, Carrie: W 15, M 24
Watanabe, Sundy: B 10
Watkins, Robert: K 22
Watson, Missy: AW 2, J 16
Watts, Patsy: J 05
Wavering, Kelly: L 23
Weaver, Amy L.: H 31
Webb-Sunderhaus, Sara: TSIG 11, H 22
Webber, Jim: G 05
Webber, Martha: A 02
Weber, Cynthia: E 23
Weber, Dani: G 15
Weber, Katrina: RNF
Webster, Travis: F 12
Wecker, Erin: I 04
Weinert, Laura: F 18
Weisberger, Ron: F 32
Weiser, Irwin: MW 6
Weisser, Christian: C 03
Weissman, Gary: E 30
Welch, Kathleen Ethel: L 19
Welch, Nancy: F 22
Well, Jennifer: AW 11
Wells, Jaclyn: L 19
Wells, Jennifer: A 35
Welsh, Joshua: I 31
Wen, Ying: I 15
Wenger, Christy: AW 14, J 07
Wenger, Mark: J 32
Werden, Leslie: QRN
Werder, Carmen: E 12
Werner, Maggie: F 26
Werner, Courtney: E 26
Werner, Erich: RNF, MW 7
Wery, Ronda: J 28
Westbrock, Theresa: H 19
Wetherbee, Ben: G 21
Wetzel, Grace: J 32
Wexler, Steven: F 01
Weyandt, Chris: MW 4
Whalen, Tracy: D 20
Wheeler, Anne: L 09
Wheeler, Stephanie: L 21
Whicker, John: K 21
Whiddon, Scott: W 10

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 373

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 373

2/1/12 12:24 PM

White, Casey: I 19
White, d’Andra: H 11
White, Kate: D 08
White, Stephanie: A 24
White-Farnham, Jamie: I 24
Whitfield, Pam: I 08
Whithaus, Carl: K 32
Whiting, Brandon: G 01
Whitley, Ben: A 13
Whittemore, Stewart: B 15
Wickman, Chad: A 25
Wiesman, Christopher: K 16
Wight, Shauna: G 19
Wilde, Patty: M 05
Wilder, Blake: K 26
Wilder, Laura: G 28
Wiles, Matthew: G 17
Wilkes, Lydia: W 14, A 18
Wilkey, Christopher: H 14
Wilkinson, Caroline: QRN, I 22
Willard-Traub, Margaret: W 5, F 10
Williams, Bonnie: QRN, AW 3, K 02
Williams, Bronwyn T.: K 23
Williams, Lauren: J 25
Williams, Mark: H 24
Williams, Matthew: H 16
Wills, Katherine V.: RNF
Wilson, Maja: W 15, G 05
Wilson, Nancy A.: M 32
Wilson, Sarah Bartlett: N 09
Wilson, Sheena: W 5
Wilson Schaffer, Martha: I 13
Winans, Amy: N 13
Wingard, Jennifer: D 16, FSIG 10
Winslow, Dianna: I 07
Winzenried, Misty Anne: C 13
Wirtz, Jason: W 13
Wise, Melody: W 15
Wisniewski, Carolyn: QRN
Witt, Ryan: J 17
Wojahn, Patti: N 27
Wojcik, Michael: M 07
Wolfe, Joanna: AW 7, E 24
Wolff, Lisa: W 5
Wolffensperger, Yochie: B 12
Wolke, Shari: F 27
Wood, Tara K.: W 14, M 10
Woodard, Rebecca: QRN, H 06
Woodworth, Elizabeth: IP
Wootton, Lacey: H 32

Wrice, Sheldon: M 34
Wright, Allison: RNF
Wright, Cassie: TSIG 16, H 29
Wright, Crystal: F 07
Wright, Elizabeth Ada: C 04
Wright, Pamela: M 24
Wyeth, Mary: B 01
Wynn, Sarah: H 27
Wysocki, Anne Frances: C 31, F 17, H 13

X
Xiao, Yuehai (Mike): W 5

Y
Yagelski, Robert: H 21
Yaghjian, Lucretia B.: F 36
Yancey, Kathleen Blake: AW 10, A 36, E 22
Yang, Hui: F 27
Yankie, Bethany: I 11
Yergeau, Melanie: E 32
Yood, Jessica: I 28
York, Eric: L 32
Yost, David: K 01
You, Xiaoye: MW 5, D 11
Young, Morris: B 35
Young, RAsheda: G 25
Young, Susan: J 29
Young, Vershawn: E 20, K 17
Yu, Eunjyu: RNF
Yuksel, Hatice Gulru: W 5

Z
Zanzucchi, Anne: N 15
Zarin, Eve: J 29
Zawacki, Terry: AW 4, FSIG 6
Zebroski, James: C 30, N 35
Zemliansky, Pavel: E 09
Zenger, Amy: W 5, F 10, M 26
Zhang, Jin: L 24
Zhang, Shishi: H 05
Zimmerelli, Lisa: L 29
Zimmerman, James: B 13
Zimmerman, Traci: A 15
Zino, Dominique: A 37, M 17

374

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 374

2/1/12 12:24 PM

Zlateva, Maria: I 14
Zoetewey, Meredith: K 05
Zollars, Michelle: W 7, H 09
Zuckermann, Trudy: B 12
Zuidema, Leah A.: K 08

CCCC CONVENTION, ST. LOUIS 2012	 375

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 375

2/1/12 12:24 PM

cccc 2012

St.Louis
CCCC would like to thank the following sponsors
of the 63rd Annual Convention in St. Louis.

376

d352-376-4Cs-2012.indd 376

Their continued support of CCCC confirms their
commitment to the teaching of composition.

2/1/12 12:24 PM

