MW.1 	Crossing BW/ESL/FYW Divides: Exploring Translingual
Writing Pedagogies and Programs
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA
Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
Juan Guerra, University of Washington, Seattle
Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, New York, NY
Patricia Bizzell, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA
Debarata Dutta, University of North Carolina-Charlotte
Respondents: Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University, Tempe
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado, Boulder
Christine Tardy, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Pullman
Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY

MW.2 	Evocative Objects: Re-imagining the Possibilities of
Multimodal Composition
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Devon F. Ralston, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Amber M. Buck, College of Staten Island, NY
Kerry Banazek, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Erin Anderson, University of Pittsburgh, PA

58

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 58

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

MW.3 	Expanding the Conversation: Graduate Students,
Contingent Faculty, and the Future of Basic Writing
Capri 105, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Jerry Stinnett, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Tara Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman
J. Michael Rifenburg, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Shannon Madden, University of Oklahoma, Norman

MW.4 	The Private and Public Work of Archival Research:
Considering Physical and Digital Archival Spaces
Capri 106, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, NH
Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Wilmington, MA
Speakers: Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Corinth
Margaret Strain, University of Dayton, OH
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College, Danielson, CT
Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, SC
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, New York, NY
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

MW.5 	The Public Work Ahead of WPAs: Developing Effective
Programs for Linguistically Diverse Students
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Haivan Hoang, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Deirdre Vinyard, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID
Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL
Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University, Newport News, VA

MW.6 	 Begged? Borrowed? Stolen? None of the Above?
Plagiarism as Educational Opportunity
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Gerald Nelms, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Carole Papper, Hofstra University, NY
Gerald Nelms, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University, OH
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 59

59

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

All-Day Wednesday Workshops
9:00–5:00 p.m.
W.01 	 TYCA Presents: Developmental Education in the
Two-Year College, a Place of Possibility
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College,
WA
Speakers: Amy Pace, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park,
KS, "Promising Developmental Education Programs"
Jody Millward, Santa Barbara City College, CA, "Effective Classroom
Practices"
Dodie Forrest, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "Effective Classroom Practices"
Sandra Schroeder, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "Effective
Classroom Practices"
Rhonda Schlatter, Mesa Community College, AZ, "Effective Classroom
Practices"
Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, MD, "Promising
Developmental Education Programs"
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, Wausau, "Promising
Developmental Education Programs"
Kathryn Byrne, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS,
"Promising Developmental Education Programs"
Beth Gulley, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS,
"Promising Developmental Education Programs"
Gordon Koestler, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "Promising Developmental Education Programs"
Sarah Johnson, Madison Area Technical College, WI, "Challenges to Developmental Education in the Two-Year College"
Laurie Lieberman, Bergen County Community College, Paramus, NJ,
"Challenges to Developmental Education in the Two-Year College"
Shane Wilson, Georgia Perimeter College, Covington, GA, "Challenges to
Developmental Education in the Two-Year College"
Ronald Weisberger, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA, "Challenges to Developmental Education in the Two-Year College"
Tatiana Keeling, Central Arizona College, Coolidge

60

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 60

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.02 	 The Political Turn: Writing Democracy for the 21st
Century
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M-Commerce
Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Micah Savaglio, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Carmen Kynard, St. John's University, NY
Ben Kuebrich, Syracuse University, NY
Laurie Grobman, Penn State University, Berks
Timothy R. Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY
Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington
Brian Baile, Syracuse University, NY
Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, NJ
Rachael Shapiro, Syracuse University, NY

W.03 	 Writing Transitions and Rhetorical Partnerships across
Elementary, Secondary, and Post-Secondary Levels
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Melody Wise, Glenville State College, WV
Pam Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
Speakers: Angelique Johnston, Monroe Community College, Rochester,
NY
Elizabeth Johnston, Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY
James Uhlenkamp, Graceland University, Lamoni, IA
Jimmy Fleming, Bedford/St. Martin's, New York, NY
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Nancy Patterson, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI
Michele Ninacs, Buffalo State College, NY
Cynthia Miecznikowski, University of North Carolina, Pembroke
Heather Lindenman, University of Maryland, College Park
Leigh Ryan, University of Maryland, College Park
Amber Jensen, Edison High School, Alexandria, VA

W.04 	 Why Feminisms Still Matter in the 21st Century:
Mentoring, Community, Collaboration, and Feminist
Agency in Interdisciplinary Feminist Discourse
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Stephanie Amsel, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX
Elizabeth Vogel, Arcadia University, Lafayette Hill, PA
Emily Johnston, Illinois State University, Bloomington
Sarah Hanks, University of Oklahoma, Oklahoma City

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 61

61

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Speakers: Susan Kates, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Feminisms and
the Material Rhetoric of U.S. Women's Quilting Practices"
Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY, "Community Engagement as Catalyst for Interdisciplinarity"
Elizabeth Chiseri-Strater, University of North Carolina at Greensboro,
"What Is a Feminist Man?: News from the Other Half of the Sky"
Jane Detweiler, University of Nevada Reno, "With Respect to Authority: A
Feminist Ethics of Action in Administration"
Facilitator: Kathleen Welch, University of Oklahoma, Norman

W.05 	 Building Statewide Partnerships: Lessons and
Questions from Ten Years of the Maine Composition
Coalition
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Deborah Hodgkins, University of Maine at Presque Isle
Speakers: Stephanie Wade, Unity College, Belfast, ME
Patricia Hager, University of Southern Maine, Lewiston-Auburn College
Kate Dionne, Central Maine Community College, Auburn
Ann Dean, University of Southern Maine, Topsham

W.06 	 CBW 2013: Basic Writing and Race: A Symposium
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor
Chair: J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, Long Island,
NY
Speakers: Beatrice Mendez Newman, The University of Texas-Pan American
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Independent Scholar, Forest Hills, NY
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA
Ashley Hannah, West Chester University, PA
Zandra Jordan, Spelman College, Atlanta, GA
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado, Boulder
Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
Scott Richard Lyons, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Pt. Pleasant, NJ
William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA
Gregory Glau, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff
Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Vancouver
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman

62

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 62

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

W.07 	 Diverse Disciplines, "New" Publics: The Work of
International Higher Education Writing Research
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Mary Scott, University of London, England
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, Stratford, CT
Speakers: Cecile Badenhorst, Memorial University, St. John's, Newfoundland, "Thinking Creatively about Research: Explorations of a Pedagogy
for Research Writing"
Margaret Franken, The University of Waikato, Hamilton, "From Proposal
to Thesis: Documenting the Identity Trajectories of International Postgraduate Students Planning, Conducting and Writing Up Masters Research"
Roxanne Gagnon, University of Geneva, Switzerland, "Learning to Teach
French Writing at the University or the Haute Ecole: An Empirical Study
on Practices in Primary and Secondary Teachers' Education Courses in
Switzerland"
Marc Surian, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland, "Learning to
Teach French Writing at the University or the Haute Ecole: An Empirical Study on Practices in Primary and Secondary Teachers' Education
Courses in Switzerland"
Hannah Gerrard, Massey University, Auckland, New Zealand, "The Very
Antipodes of the Centers of Learning: Composition Instruction and the
Idea of General Education in the New Zealand University"
Sanne Larsen, University of Copenhagen, Denmark, "Re-contextualising
Academic Writing in English: Case Studies of International Student
Writers in Higher Education in Denmark"
Karl-Heinz Pogner, Copenhagen Business School, Copenhagen, "Text
Production in the Professions as Acting in the Workplace: What Can
Research in Non-academic Writing Contribute to Teaching Writing at
Universities?"
Karyn Sandstrom, Umea University, Sweden, "I Would Never Write It That
Way: How L2 Research Writers' Self-Narratives Inform Their Use of
Web-Mediated Peer Review"
Cheryl Sheridan, National Chengchi University, Taiwan, "The Development of a Local Journal and its Role in a Discourse Community on the
Periphery: Stakeholder Interviews"
Aartje van Dijk, Institute for Teacher Training (IVL), Rotterdam University,
The Netherlands, "Writing to Learn and Genre Pedagogy: Experiments
in Teacher Training in Biology and Mathematics"
Amos van Gelderen, University of Amsterdam, "Writing to Learn and
Genre Pedagogy: Experiments in Teacher Training in Biology and Mathematics"
Xiaoqiong You, Shanghai University of Political Science and Law, Shanghai, "Teaching to Their Strengths: American Content Teachers' Adaptations in Multilingual College Classrooms"
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 63

63

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Afternoon 1:30–5:00 p.m.
AW.01	Community College to Comprehensive University:
Designing Workable Projects and Drafting SWR Book
Proposals
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Robin Gosser, Auburn University, AL
Betsy Verhoeven, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA
Raúl Sánchez, University of Florida, Gainesville
Krista Ratcliffe, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman
Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC
Adam Banks, University of Kentucky, Lexington

AW.02	Developing, Planning, and Implementing Directed SelfPlacement
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Christie Toth, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Naomi Silver, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Laura Aull, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC

AW.03	Disarming the Privileging of "Standard" English:
Classroom Implementation of Writing Assignments
that Fight Linguistic Dominance
Capri 105, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Bonnie Williams, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Rashidah Muhammad, Governors State University, University Park, IL
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
Austin Jackson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Qwo-Li Driskill, Texas A&M, College Station
David Kirkland, Michigan State University/New York University, East
Lansing
Terry Carter, Southern Polytechnic State, Marietta, GA

64

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 64

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.04	Teaching a New Ghost Dance: American Indian Texts
in Composition Classrooms
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Speakers: Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Qwo-Li Driskill, Texas A&M, College Station
Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University, Normal
Sundy Louise Watanabe, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA

AW.05	Making Lives Behind Bars Visible: Literacy Programs
and Activism
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy, NY
Speakers: Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA, "The Crossroads Cookbook: Life Stories and Advocacy"
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, MI, "Creating Ripples
and Streams: Extending the College Presence in Prison"
Tom Kerr, Ithaca College, NY, "Dead Man Writing: What It Means for Us"
Sherry Rankins-Robertson, University of Arkansas-Little Rock, "Education
as a Basic Human"
Chesley Spring, Northern Nevada Correctional Center, Carson City
Barbara Roswell, Goucher College, Baltimore, MD, "Creating Prison/
Community Connections"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy, NY, "Making the Past Visible:
Researching the History of Prison Writing Workshops"
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Methodological
Challenges of Interviewing Writers in Prison"
Cory Holding, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Prison Classrooms: The Challenge of Telling the Story"
Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, "Prison Stories and Ethics in Conducting Research"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Applying
Mixed Methodologies for Prison Research and Scholarship"

AW.06	Designing Writing Spaces for the 21st Century
Composition Student
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Susan Miller-Cochran, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Amanda Bemer, Southwest Minnesota State University, Marshall
Russell Carpenter, Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond
Elizabeth Monske, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Lauren Goldstein, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Dana Gierdowski, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 65

65

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.07	Faculty Development and Composition Scholars:
Creating Campus-wide Impacts and Expanding Career
Opportunities
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Isis Artze-Vega, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Susan K. Hess, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva,
NY, "Beyond Carrots and Sticks: Adult Education Theory as a Basis for
Working with Faculty and TAs"
Isis Artze-Vega, Florida International University, Miami, "EnvisioningOur Students as Learners, Not Just Writers and Planting Campus Wide
WAC and WID Seeds"
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Creating a Campus Culture That Values the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning"
Gerald Nelms, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Going One-on-One
with Faculty: An Introduction to Instructional Consultation"
Claire Lamonica, Illinois State University, Normal, "Using Maslow and
'Need to Know' as a Basis for Designing Writing Instructor and/or New
Faculty Orientation(s)"
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Collaborative Writing
and Faculty Development"

AW.09	Preparing High School Teachers of Dual-Credit
College Composition
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Jill Stephen, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA
John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington
David Rosenwasser, Muhlenberg College, Allentown, PA
Deanna Jessup, Indiana University, Bloomington

AW.10	Exploring Latinidad in the West: A Workshop
Sponsored by the NCTE/CCCC Latino/a Caucus
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University- Corpus Christi
Speakers: Socorro Carrizosa, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, "Juntos Podemos: The Challenges and Rewards of a Success and Retention
Course for Latin@ Students"
Alyssa Crow, Texas State University, New Braunfels, TX, "Inclusion and
Access: Language Ideology and Enacting a 'Students' Right to Their
Own Language' Pedagogy"
Romeo Garcia, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Crossing Physical
Borders Into Academic Borders"

66

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 66

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Alexandra Hildalgo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Hollywood's
Blues: Bridging Together Race, Gender, and Multimedia Production in
the Classroom"
Raul Sanchez, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Working With, In, and
Against Theory"
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University San Marcos, "Academic Juegos:
The Latino Scholar"
Benjamin Mills, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Juntos Podemos: The
Challenges and Rewards of a Success and Retention Course for Latin@
Students"
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University-State University of New York, "Juntos Podemos: The Challenges and Rewards of a Success and Retention
Course for Latin@ Students"
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "Embracing Students' Home
Languages by Engaging with Communities"
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

AW.11	The Public Work Ahead of Writing Teachers: 21st
Century Pedagogies for Linguistically Diverse
Students
Capri 113, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso
Haivan Hoang, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Christina Ortmeier-Hooper, University of New Hampshire, Londonderry
Kate Wilson, American University, Washington, DC
Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Portsmouth
Dana Ferris, University of California, Davis
Angela Dadak, American University, Washington, DC
Patricia Portanova, University of New Hampshire, Danvers
Amber Engelson, University of Denver, CO
Kacie Kiser, Arizona State University, Tempe

AW.12	Archiving Everyday Writing
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Katherine Bridgman, Florida State University, Tallahassee

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 67

67

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

AW.13	Genres in Action
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: Katie Pryal, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Amy Devitt, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Rebecca S. Nowacek, Marquette University, WI
Carolyn Miller, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Janet Giltrow, University of British Columbia, Canada
Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Mary Jo Reiff, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Katie Pryal, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill

68

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 68

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 7:30 a.m.–6:00 p.m.

Thursday, March 14
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
Royale Pavilion, Lobby Level
EXHIBITS, 10:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
Royale Pavilion, Lobby Level
Computer Connection/Digital Posters
Top of the Riviera South
Newcomers' Coffee Hour, 7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
Grande Ballroom A, First Floor

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 69

69

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		
		
		
		

Opening General Session
Grande Ballroom E/F
First Floor
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Presiding: Howard Tinberg, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Greetings: Robyn Rhode, Local Arrangements Chair, College of Southern Nevada,
Las Vegas
Keith Gilyard, NCTE President, Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Andy Anderson, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS

Scholars for the Dream—2013 Recipients
Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge–E.24
Catalina Bartlett, Texas A&M University, College Station–D.08
Tara Betts, Binghamton University, NY–M.29
Victor Jesus Del Hierro Texas A&M University, College Station–D.08
Romeo Garcia, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi–L.06
Michelle Garza, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi–E.07
Laura Martinez, University of Central Florida, Orlando–N.15
Indra N. Mukhopadhyay, University of Southern California, Los Angeles–C.22
Seonsook Park, New Mexico Highlands University-Rio Rancho–N.03
Alma Villanueva, Texas A&M University, College Station–C.09

Previous Scholars for the Dream Award Winners
2012
Steven Alvarez, Erica Britt, Karen Ching Carter, Christina Victoria Cedillo, Marino
Ivo Lopes Fernandes, Juan M. Gallegos, Eileen Lagman, Helen Lee, Jimisha I. Relerford, LaToya L. Sawyer

2011
Sonia C. Arellano, Lamiyah Bahrainwala, Michael Sterling Burns, Lehua Ledbetter,
Kelly McLain, Caroline Prieto, Cheyenne Riggs, Elias Serna, Reva E. Sias

2010
Tamika Barrett, Eileen Ain Shams Eddy,R. Candace Epps-Robertson, Fernando
Febres, Regina L. Golar, ku'ualoha ho'omanawanui, Vivian García López, Brandy
Nalani McDougall, Cruz Medina, Gabriela Raquel Ríos

70

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 70

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

2009

Maryam Elena Jamali Ashtiani, Lina Buffington, Jason B. Esters, David F. Green,
Jr., Janie Jaramillo-Santoy, Marissa M. Juárez, Wen Ma, Sarah Nieto Olivas, Bettina
Ramón, Michelle Bachelor Robinson

2008
Qwo-Li Driskill, Crystal M. Hills, Donna Hunter, Aja Y. Martinez, Natalie A. Martínez, Leslie D. Norris, Kathryn Ortiz, Andrea Osteen, Melissa Berry Pearson, Staci
M. Perryman-Clark
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
scholarsforthedream

Scholars for the Dream Travel Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY
Gabriela R. Rios, University of Central Florida, Orlando

To increase the participation of traditionally underrepresented groups—African
Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and other Latino
and Latina Americans, and American Indians—CCCC has established the Scholars
for the Dream Travel Awards. The awards celebrate the scholarly contributions of
first-time presenters at CCCC who are members of these groups. By providing some
funding for these scholars to travel to the Conference and to share their work with us,
we hope to make the term "underrepresented" past history.

Chairs' Memorial Scholarship—2013 Recipients
Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Louisville, KY
Marcos J. Del Hierro, Texas A&M University, College Station
Kendra L. Mitchell, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Christie Toth, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

Chairs' Memorial Scholarship Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Rasha Diab, University of Texas at Austin
Akua Duku Anokye, Arizona State University West, Phoenix
James L. Hill, Albany State University, GA
Staci M. Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Eric D. Pritchard, University of Texas at Austin

To remember and honor the Chairs of CCCC who have passed away, the CCCC
Executive Committee has created scholarships of $750 each to help cover the costs

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 71

71

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

of four graduate students who are presenting at the annual conference. Full-time
graduate students whose presentations were selected through the regular peer review
process are eligible for these scholarships.
Previous Chairs' Memorial Scholarship Winners
2012 	 Jessica Barros, Benjamin Miller, Vanessa Rouillon, Tanita Saenkhum
2011	 Erin R. Anderson, Beth Godbee, Rebecca Lorimer, Ryan Trauman
2010	 Iris Deana Ruiz, Jota Samper, Kyle D. Stedman, Kara Taczak
2009	 Tabetha Adkins, Michael Harker, Susan Meyers, Ehren Pflugfelder
2008	 J. James Bono, Rasha Diab, Hyechong Park, Kate Vieira
2007	 Celeste Del Russo, Spencer Salas, Lee Shenandoah Vasquez, Richard
LeMoine Wright
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
chairsscholarship

International Writing Centers Association (IWCA) Award
Winners
2011 Best Article Award: Rebecca Babcock (University of Texas Permain Basin),
"Interpreted Writing Center Tutorials with College-Level Deaf Students" (Linguistics and Education 22 [2011]: 95-117).
2011 Outstanding Book Award: Karen Rowan (Cal State San Bernidino) and Laura
Greenfield (Women's Voices Worldwide, Inc) for their edited collection, Writing
Centers and the New Racism: A Call for Sustainable Dialogue and Change. (2011).
Logan, UT: Utah State University Press.

72

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 72

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

just at the point when they are thinking about retirement. And many students wonder
if all the expense will be worth it, and that there is something good waiting for them
on the other side of their learning.
"Nice spatial metaphor," he writes.
This crisis of cost is causing higher education to go backwards, boxing out the poor
(again) and depriving minorities of access. Only 3% of students in the selective colleges and universities are now coming from low-income households. Only 27% of
students go right from high school to four-year colleges.
But there will always be students and classrooms, he thinks. He is reminded of other
dystopian scenarios of the university in ruins . . . they forget that it's among the most
stable institutions in the world. He polishes his glasses and glances out at the quad
again. Dozens of students still rushing to class. 26,000 enrolled now. It has been like
this all along. As far back as he can think, it's always been this way.
The rising costs are also creating a desire to speed up the learning experience through
three-year college and dual-credit, which is spreading like a grass fire across the
high school system. This will only create less educated citizens without an appreciation for all types of knowledge.
Grass fire. Nice.
To cut requirements (and therefore cost), general education is attacked for not being
relevant. Some universities are considering having students do the first two years
entirely online. It's as if only job training matters. According to a recent report, all of
the liberal arts are in decline.
Yes, he's heard this concern. But he recalls data that show no matter how fast you get
it, a college degree is actually worth almost twice what a high school degree is worth
in lifetime earnings. He writes, "No matter how fast you get it, isn't a college degree
worth more in lifetime earnings than a high school degree?"
"Efficiency" also means larger classes and more lecturing, which pushes out methods that are helpful to students. Even as a senior, I file into Harris or Donnely or
Wilson with dozens of other students and we dutifully take our seats in tiered rows,
distracted, coughing, texting, and sleep-deprived. Then some expert speechifies at
us for an hour and doesn't care that there is a sea of blank, indifferent faces staring
back. To be efficient, the teacher accepts a sink or swim approach where the "best"
students do OK no matter how bad the delivery is, and the struggling learners fail.
Cutting budgets only makes the problem worse. Even my smaller classes are mostly
lectures and tests now and it's harder to learn. But online presentations are much
better and could replace lectures, as well as those who are doing the lecturing, if that
is all they can do.

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 75

75

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

The writing is quite good, he decides. Funny how these think pieces are sometimes
more authentic than the formal papers.
In first-semester composition my instructor proudly declared that we were in the one
class where students could get a truly interactive experience and individual attention. But now, according to one of my interview sources, it's something you try to
do as quickly as possible or get out of. Across the U.S., she says, there is pressure
to call composition "remedial" and push it out of the university, or assign already
underpaid teachers triple the sections and send the papers to India to be graded, or
even feed them into computers.
He thinks of the two hours he has spent so far with this batch.
Universities are struggling with costs and students are fighting to pay their bills,
but knowledge is getting freer and more abundant. While it's business as usual in
college, MOOCs like edX are flourishing. Some MOOCs are even coming from the
universities themselves. A research professor at Stanford who had taught a MOOC
said, according to the New York Times, that now he can no longer teach as usual: "I
feel like there's a red pill and a blue pill, and you can take the blue pill and go back
to your classroom and lecture your 20 students. But I've taken the red pill, and I've
seen Wonderland."
He looks up MOOC on Google and writes, "spell out the acronym?"
If teachers and administrators in universities don't begin adapting, they will soon
become obsolete and so will the universities where they work. For example, with due
respect for assignments like this one, I would much rather be stretching my abilities
by doing something more creative and purposeful, especially with technology. Many
of my friends are just plain bored with what we have to do for our degrees. It seems
lifeless and uninspired compared to the things we're doing on our own.
His hands are quickly on the keyboard. "What about the skills of argument, logic,
and developing and supporting ideas?" Then adds: "Any evidence that technology
helps?" He re-reads it and decides that it's not too defensive. Besides, he wouldn't
really know how to grade a multimedia paper.
In conclusion, many forces such as increased cost, a desire for speed and efficiency,
and the development of new routes to education threaten to completely transform
the traditional university. If its leaders and faculty do nothing, the current system
will continue to weaken, creating more inequity, a narrower exposure to knowledge,
"faster learning," and less value for cost.
He needs a summary comment at the end, but can't quite think of what to say.
	 He glances out at the quad again, almost no one visible now that the next hour
has begun and the students have filled dozens of classrooms and lecture halls across
campus.

76

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 76

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

	 He can see, beyond the south end of the quad, a bit of the majestic old music
building, its ivy-framed mullioned windows glinting in the sun. He recalls the experience of walking past the dozens of practice rooms on the second floor and hearing the postmodern cacophony of instruments—timpani, tubas, cellos, pianos, saxes,
flutes, overlaid with someone's operatic baritone. He playfully imagines what would
happen if the sound from every class on campus were piped into his office together,
right now, hundreds of voices converging into an overpowering thrum of information, of knowledge being passed along, mouth to ear, just as it always has.
***
Chris Anson is University Distinguished Professor and Director of the Campus Writing and Speaking Program at North Carolina State University. He received an M.A.
in creative writing from Syracuse University in 1979 and a second M.A. and Ph.D.
from Indiana University in English Language with a Specialization in Composition
Studies in 1984. He has published 15 books and over 100 articles on a wide range
of writing-related subjects, including assessment, writing across the curriculum, response to student writing, faculty development, writing program administration, and
writing with technology. He has received numerous awards, including the State of
Minnesota Higher Education Teaching Award, and has received or been co-principal
investigator on over $1 million in grants. He has spoken and led workshops at conferences and universities across the U.S. and in 26 other countries. His professional
summary can be found at www.ansonica.net.

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 77

77

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Theory

A.01 	 Rhetorics of Self-Representation by Scholars of Color
Skybox 202, Second Floor
Chair: Reanna Ursin, McDaniel College, Westminster, MD
Speakers: Yasamin Salari, San Diego State University, CA, "Reading Students' Readings of My Race: Generation 1.5 Students' Identification
with a Middle-Eastern Instructor"
Paul Minifee, San Diego State University, CA, "'How It Feels to Be a Colored Ph.D.': Paradoxes of Post-Racial Pedagogy"
Michele Foss-Snowden, California State University, Sacramento, "Walking
the Tightrope: Balancing Student Expectations with Professional Obligations"
Reanna Ursin, McDaniel College, Westminster, MD, "Cultivating Administrators' Critical Literacy: Framing Students' Evaluations of Faculty of
Color"
Theory

A.02 	 The Multiplex Surface: An Investigation of Transformative Influence of Technology, Politics, and Guerrilla
Pedagogy on Writing Classrooms
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Christy Gilroy, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "The
Imagined Self: The Politics of (Re) Writing the News"
Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College, Annandale, "The
Writing Is on the Wall: Using DIY Narrative to Empower and Engage
Student Writers"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.03 	 Visual Considerations for Students and Writing
Teachers
Capri 105, First Floor
Chair: Kathryn Comer, Barry University, Miami Beach, FL
Speakers: Kathryn Comer, Barry University, Miami Beach, FL, "Taking
Comics Seriously in Composition Studies"
Florence Elizabeth Bacabac, Dixie State College of Utah, St George,
"Building Something for Keeps: Professional ePortfolios, Multi-layered
Literacies, and Technical Writing"
Petger Schaberg, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Don't Forget the Alphabet: Critical Writing in Video Design Projects"

80

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 80

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Theory

A.04 	 Expanding Perspectives of Writing Transfer: New
Terms, Methods, and Pedagogies
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Chair: Kevin Roozen, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI,
"Transfer as Bricolage: Assembling Genre Knowledge across Contexts"
Kevin Roozen, Auburn University, AL, "From Transfers to Historical Trajectories: Tracing the Development of Literate Persons and Practices"
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Systemic and
Individual Problem-Solving Dispositions: Toward a Dialectical Understanding of 'Transfer'"
Basic Writing

A.05 	 From Homework to Public Work: Locating Digital
Communities in the Composition Classroom
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Jacob Babb, University of North Carolina, Greensboro
Speakers: David Tomkins, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Civic Engagement and the Web-based College Essay"
Matt Manson, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "Preserving
the Learning Community in the Desert of the Real"
James Condon, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "Digital
Natives and the Academic Discourse Community"
Information Technologies

A.06 	 Your Previous Assumptions Do Trip You: How Error,
Non-Identity, and Memory in Digital Texts Destabilize
Writing
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Chair: Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Speakers: Stuart Moulthrop, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee "The
Challenge of Non-Identity in Writing"
Rachael Sullivan, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, "'Give us an
UNDO Button': Facebook Timelines and the Passionate Error"
Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, "Tiny Read Memories"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 81

81

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

A.07 	 Multimodal Composition and Web 2.0: Equipping
Under-Prepared Students with Real World Skills
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Mary McGinnis, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Speakers: Lauren Zajac, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Amy Van Soest, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Rebecca Medley, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Jela Latinovitch, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Brandy Dieterle, Purdue University, Hammond, IN
Research

A.08 	 Navigating the Landscapes: Transfer and Threshold
Concepts as Lenses for the Public Work of Writing in
the University
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara,
"Threshold Concepts: General Education, Writing, and History"
Kara Taczak, University of Denver, CO, "Key Terms and Threshold Concepts: Bridging Connections for Transfer"
Liane Robertson, William Patterson University, Wayne, NJ, "Connecting
Content, Transfer, and Threshold Concepts in First-Year Writing"
John Majewski, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Threshold Concepts: General Education, Writing, and History"
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID, "Shifting Thresholds for Writing
in a New General Education Program"
Irene Clark, California State University, Northridge, "Genre Awareness as
a Threshold Concept"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.09 	 Writing Science and Critical Literacy
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: Janice Chernekoff, Kutztown University, PA
Speakers: Janice Chernekoff, Kutztown University, PA, "Food Matters: Organic, Local Acts of Writing and Eating"
Drew Holladay, University of Louisville, KY, "Serious Research vs.
'Shrimp on a Treadmill': Helping Composition Students Navigate the
Modern Political Rhetoric of Science"
Jennifer Mallette, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Critical Literacy in
a Science Writing Classroom"

82

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 82

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.10 	 Listening as Writing Pedagogy
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Vanessa Kraemer Sohan, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Erin Dietel-McLaughlin, University of Notre Dame, South Bend,
IN, "Write/Hear, Write Now: The Audio Essay as Public Work"
Vanessa Kraemer Sohan, Florida International University, Miami, "Listening to the 'Alternative' in Theory and Practice"
Stephanie Weaver, University of Louisville, KY, "Swatching Rhetoric: An
Assignment in Listening, Imitating, and Analyzing"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.11 	 Unsafe at Any Speed: When Students Research, Read,
and Write with Their Foot on the Pedal
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Cynthia Bair Van Dam, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Charles Cox, American University, Washington, DC, "Life in the
Fast Lane: Why Are Students Speeding through Reading, Writing, and
Research?"
Kelly Joyner, American University, Washington, DC, "Stopping for Directions: Slowing Down to Read as Researchers"
Alison Thomas, American University, Washington, DC, "Carpooling and
Public Transit: The Possibility of Collaborative Research"
Cynthia Bair Van Dam, American University, Washington, DC, "The Scenic
Route: Current Thinking about the Reading/Composition Connection"
Professional and Technical Writing

A.12 	 14 Original Heuristics for Solving Writing Problems:
A Roundtable in Tweets
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Stuart Selber, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park
Johndan Johnson-Eilola, Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY
Speakers: Bernadette Longo, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,
"What can History Teach Us about Technical Communication?"
James Porter, Miami University, Oxford, "How Can Rhetoric Theory Inform the Practice of Technical Communication?"
Karen Schriver, KSA Communication Design and Research, Oakmont, PA,
"What Do Technical Communicators Need to Know about Information
Design?"
Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor, "What do Technical Communicators Need to Know about Writing?"
Rebecca Burnett, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, "What do Technical Communicators Need to Know about Collaboration?"
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 83

83

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Brent Henze, East Carolina University, Greenville, "What do Technical
Communicators Need to Know about Genre?"
Jim Henry, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, "How Can Technical Communicators Fit into Contemporary Organizations?"
Bill Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "What are the
Work Processes of Technical Communication?"
T. Kenny Fountain, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH,
"What can History Teach Us about Technical Communication?"
L. Andrew Cooper, University of Louisville, KY, "What do Technical Communicators Need to Know about Collaboration?"
Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "How can Technical
Communicators Plan for Users?"
Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "How can Work
Tools Shape and Organize Technical Communication?"
Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, "What do Technical
Communicators Need to Know about New Media?"
Candice Welhausen, University of Delaware, Newark, "What do Technical
Communicators Need to Know about Collaboration?"
Clay Spinuzzi, University of Texas, Austin, "How can Technical Communicators Study Work Contexts?"
Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "What Are the Boundaries, Artifacts, and Identities of Technical Communication?"
Language

A.13 	 Honoring Vernacular Eloquence: Pathways to
Intellectual and Academic Discourse
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor
Chair: Ernest Morrell, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York,
NY
Speakers: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Multiple
Versions of Written English: In Our Past—and Also in Our Future"
Sheridan Blau, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY,
"Vernacular Eloquence as the Foundation for a Vital Academic Discourse"
Theory

A.14 	 Feeling Undisciplined: Reading Practices and
Scholarly Work
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine, "Diligent
Pleasures: Toward a Radical Politics of Academic Reading"
Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Reading for a Feeling"
Jacqueline Rhodes, California State University San Bernardino, "Folding
the Public Sphere: Queer (Re)Reading"
84

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 84

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.15 	 Whose Story Is It Anyway? Student Authorship and the
Craft of Narrative
Capri 110, First Floor
Chair: P.F. Potvin, University of Michigan-Dearborn
Speakers: Kristian Stewart, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Acts of
Narrative: Moving Away from Gateway Assignments to Embracing Student Authorship"
Andrew Wright, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Lies My Students Told
Me (and a Few Half-Truths I Tell My Students)"
P.F. Potvin, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Poker Face Narrative"
Academic Writing

A.16 	 Strategies, Supports, and Barriers: The Complex Transfer
of Genre Knowledge in the Disciplines
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University, CA
Speakers: Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University, CA, "'New'
Genres, 'Not' Genres, and Writers' Negotiated Roles"
Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, CA, "'New' Genres, 'Not'
Genres, and Writers' Negotiated Roles"
Neil Baird, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Negotiating Dual Genres
and School Genres"
Bradley Dilger, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Negotiating Dual
Genres and School Genres"
Basic Writing

A.17 	 There's Nothing Basic about Basic Writing
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor
Co-Chairs: J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY,
Long Island City
Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Carla Maroudas, Mt. San Jacinto Community College, San Diego, CA, "Student Placement"
Elaine Jolayemi, Ivy Tech College, Indianapolis, IN, "Who are Basic Writers?"
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY, Long Island
City, "Teaching with Technology"
Leigh Jonaitis, Bergen Community College, Greenwood Lake, NY, "Who
are Basic Writers?"
Marisa Klages, LaGuardia Community College, Staten Island, NY, "Teacher Preparation and Professional Development"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 85

85

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Debra Berry, College of Southern Nevada, Las Vegas, "Teacher Preparation
and Professional Development"
Ilene Rubenstein, College of the Desert, Palm Desert, CA, "Academic
Skills/Writing Centers"
Amy Edwards Patterson, Moraine Park Technical College, Beaver Dam, WI
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.18 	 Beyond Bahamian Classroom Walls (and Back Again):
Student Writing and Engagement in Public Spaces
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Raymond Oenbring, The College of The Bahamas, Nassau, "Using Web 2.0 Technology in the Composition Classroom to Log Cultural
Memory: The Case of the Electronic Dictionary of Bahamian English"
Toni Francis, College of The Bahamas, Nassau, "'You Don' Know Who
I Is': Bahamian Historicism in the Advanced Composition Classroom"
Randall Pinder, College of The Bahamas, Nassau, "I Never Knew That:
Exploring Public Spaces and Practices through Writing"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.19 	 Re-Centering Composition: New Perspectives on
Literacy Instruction for Culturally and Linguistically
Diverse Publics
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Evan Ashworth, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Language Ideologies and Students' Acceptance of and Resistance to Writing"
Kathryn Denton, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Diversifying
the Horizons of Composition Studies: An Exploration of Digital Literacies"
Brian Hendrickson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "A Public
Affair: The Intermediate Expository Writing Course as Community
Writing Center Practicum"
Daniel Sanford, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Multilingualism, Writing, and the Academy: Beyond ESL"

86

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 86

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.20 	 Our Relationships to Stories and Lands: Indigenous
Knowledge in Basic Writing and Composition
Classrooms
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA,
"'There's a Story I Know': A Pedagogy for Composition Classrooms"
Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "Knowing Your Place:
Grounding Writing Students in Audiences and Environments"
Gabriela Rios, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "(Re)Inventing the
University: Land-Based Public Histories of (Basic) Writing"
Kenlea Pebbles, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, MI, "We
Are Self and Other: Critical Thought, Freshman Composition, and Connection, and Differentiation"
Gail MacKay, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada, "Elder's
Oral Discourse as Interpretive Tool"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.21 	 Mobilizing Insider Knowledge: Examining How
Disciplinary Participants Provide Affordances for
Student Writing
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Misty Anne Winzenried, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Misty Anne Winzenried, University of Washington, Seattle,
"Constructing and Mediating Notions of Disciplinarity: Interviews with
Insiders"
Lillian Campbell, University of Washington, Seattle, "Insider Perspectives
on the Role of Public Science Texts in Teaching Science Writing"
Matt Wiles, University of Louisville, KY, "Outsiders, Insiders, and the
Double Binds between Them: An Analysis of Upper-Division Nursing
Students' Writing between the University and the Workplace"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.22 	 Reading Into Writing: Student Writers Reading in
Secondary, Two-Year College, and First-Year
Composition Classrooms
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Pam Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA
Speakers: Cynthia Miecznikowski, University of North Carolina–Pembroke
Angela Rogers, University of North Carolina–Pembroke

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 87

87

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

A.23 	 Operation Preparation: Where Revolutionary Theories
and Institutional Practices Collide
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Speakers: Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska, Lincoln "The Public
Work of Writing Centers in the New Economy"
Debbie Minter, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Changing Sameness: A
Hopeful Theory of Administration"
Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Preparing a Queer(er)
Public"
Shari Stenberg, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Rewriting the Standard,
Preparing the Teacher"
Institutional and Professional

A.24 	 General Education and the Teaching of Writing:
Exploring the Opportunities for More Deliberate
Pedagogies
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Carol Rutz, Carleton College, Northfield, MN
Speakers: Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Lexington, VA, "The Shift toward Integrative Liberal Education and the Opportunities for the Teaching and Administration of Writing"
John Bean, Seattle University, WA, "Transfer of Learning and Backward
Design: Rethinking the Articulation of Writing Assignments between
First-Year Composition and General Education Courses"
Carol Rutz, Carleton College, Northfield, MN, "Gen Ed Revision and Faculty Autonomy"
Dominic Delli Carpini, York College of Pennsylvania, "General Education
Writ Large: Encouraging Metacognition in General Education Course
and Assignment Design through Faculty Development"
Institutional and Professional

A.25 	 Getting a Job in a Two-Year College
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: David Lydic, Austin Community College, TX
Speakers: David Lydic, Austin Community College, TX, "The Art of the
Interview"
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA, "Finding Job Openings in TwoYear Colleges"
Alexis Nelson, Spokane Falls Community College, WA, "Writing an Outstanding Application Letter"

88

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 88

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

A.26 	 Teaching on the Move: Mobile Technologies and Public
Writing
Capri 116, First Floor
Chair: Andrew Blake, Delaware State University, Dover
Speakers: Christina Fontana, Rochester Hills, MI, "Hands-on Local Writing: Mobile Computing for Public Works"
Claire Lutkewitte, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL,
"The Mobile Student: Possibilities for Composition and Mobile Technologies in Public Spaces"
Information Technologies

A.27 	 Commenting, Conferencing, and Collaboration:
Interrogating Online Writing Pedagogy
Skybox 206, Second Floor
Chair: Ann Linden, Shawnee State University, Portsmouth, OH
Speakers: Rebecca Hallman, University of Houston, TX, "Teaching
Through (In-)Text: Investigating Commenting Formats and Content in
First-Year Composition and the Virtual Writing Center"
Justin Kurth, Missouri State University, Lebanon, "Interactive Online
Learning Platforms: Academic Outreach for the Composition Classroom"
Information Technologies

A.28 	 Anti-Social Networking: Complicating Public, Digital
Composing
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Speakers: Michael Trice, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Community
Media Requires Community Pedagogy: Understanding Wiki Use as Local Community Literacy"
Pamela Chisum, Washington State University, Pullman, "Social Media
Does Not Belong in the Classroom! (Or Does It?)"
David Menchaca, Washington State University, Pullman, "Technology and
First-Year Composition: Institutional Economies of Literacy"
Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "The Discourse of
Distracted Composing as Distracted Driving"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 89

89

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

History

A.29 	 Drawing on the Archives to Challenge Dominant
Notions of Writing Practices
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Barrie Olson, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Josh Mehler, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "19th Century
Small Printing Presses: Technology, Vernacular Publics, and Composition Pedagogy"
Barrie Olson, University of Louisville, KY, "Turn-of-the-Century Notebooks: A Challenge to Current-Traditional Pedagogy"
Sherrie Gradin, Ohio University, Athens, "Rural Queer Archives: A Call to
Action"
History

A.30 	 "Alternative Histories" Auguring Alternative Futures:
Nineteenth-Century Normal Schools and Twenty-First
Century Practices
Skybox 209, Second Floor
Chair: Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware, Newark
Speakers: Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University, CA, "Nineteenth-Century State Teachers' Institutes: Fostering Reform and the Professional Development of California Teachers"
Beth Ann Rothermel, Westfield State University, MA, "A Home of Thought,
Where Learning Rules: Student Writing and Teacher Identity at a Progressive Era Normal School"
Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware, Newark, "Stand Mum"
Respondent: Lori Alden Ostergaard, Oakland University, Rochester Hills,
MI
Community, Civic & Public

A.31 	 Writing across the Justice System
Skybox 210, Second Floor
Chair: Gretchen Cobb, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis
Speakers: Tabetha Adkins, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Making
Use of Public Work: Characterizations of Literacy in the Supreme Court"
Leslie Seawright, University of Texas A&M at Qatar, "You Have the Right
to Remain Silent: The Rhetoric of Police Reports"
Chris Earle, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Tactical Representations:
Claims to/of Space in Prison Writing"

90

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 90

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

A.32 	 Documenting Lives: Interviewing as Pedagogy and
Activism
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Tom Fox, California State University, Chico
Speakers: Diana George, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Telling Stories: Social-Justice Documentaries of Palestine, Colombia, the Shenandoah Valley, Your Neighborhood"
Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "Interviews as Social Justice: Seven Languages in One Composition Classroom"
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, MA, "Oral History as Public Research for
Undergraduate Writing Classes"
Basic Writing

A.33 	 What Works: New Approaches in the Basic Writing
Classroom
Skybox 205, Second Floor
Chair: Josh Mehler, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Anita August, Sacred Heart University, Stratford, CT, "We Need
to Talk about Student X: 'Situating' Visual Literacy in the Basic Writing
Curriculum"
Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College, CT, "Using Invention Techniques with Community College Basic Composition Students"
Heather Camp, Minnesota State University, Mankato, "Revisiting Writingabout-Writing in the Basic Writing Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.34 	 Bridging the Divide between Basic Literacy and
College Readiness: Using Protocol Analysis to Prepare
Basic Readers and Writers for Academic Success
Skybox 201, Second Floor
Chair: Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
Speakers: Karen Shea, Portsmouth, RI, "I Think I Know What You Mean:
Using Think-Aloud Protocols to Assess L2 Learners' (Mis)Understandings of Teacher Comments"
Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, "Framework
for Success: A Writing about Reading Self-study for First-Year Composition Teachers"
Anicca Cox, North Dartmouth, MA, "Reflective Reading Practices: Support for Developing Practitioners in the First-Year Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 91

91

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

A.35 	 We Are the .2%: Critical Race Counterstories of
Chican@ PhD Experiences in Rhetoric and
Composition
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor
Chair: Jaime Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Cruz Medina, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ,"Digital Latin@ Counterstories: Writing the Personal in Public (Cyber) Spaces"
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University-State University of New York, "Chican@ in Academia: The Necessity to Speak and Some Stories to Begin
With"
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University San Marcos, "Giving Voice: The
Latin@ Voice that is often Ignored at Best"

Open Working Meeting of the Rhetoric and Christian
Tradition SIG
Room 203, Second Floor
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

92

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 92

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.02 	 Remembering Adrienne Rich
Skybox 206, Second Floor
Chair: Ian Barnard, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Anne Shea, California College of the Arts, Oakland, "Theater of
Voices"
Aneil Rallin, Soka University of America, Los Angeles, CA, "Love Letters
to Adrienne"
Harriet Malinowitz, Long Island University, NY, "The Icon Across the
Street"
Respondent: Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University, CA
Writing Programs

B.03 	 Information and Its Consequences for Work:
Theorizing a Writing Program Informatics
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Thomas Moriarty, Salisbury University, MD
Speakers: Elizabeth Curtin, Salisbury University, MD, "The Informatics of
Writing Across the Curriculum Programs"
Loren Marquez, Salisbury University, MD, "Developing a Social Informatics for First-Year Writing"
Thomas Moriarty, Salisbury University, MD, "Informatics and Writing Majors"
Nicole Munday, Salisbury University, MD, "A Framework for Writing
Center Information Systems: Cultivating a Proactive Data Management
Strategy"
Theory

B.04 	 Persuasive Spaces: Museums and the Compelling
Narrative
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Joanna Lackey, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "'Wanton
Mischief' in the British Museum: Composing Public Spaces"
Travis Maynard, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "And on the Eighth
Day, God Created Rhetoricians: A Case Study of the Creation Museum"
Elizabeth Powers, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Constructing
Genesis: Exploring the Visual Rhetoric of the Creation Museum"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 95

95

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.05 	 Everyday Writing: Instances, Circulations, Implications
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor
Chair: Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO, "Letter to Message,
Scrapbook to Timeline: The Everyday Writings of Two Dozen Professionals, 1912 to 2012"
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "'It Was Revolutionary': Four Scenes of Everyday Writers, the Technologies Supporting Them, and the Circulations Effecting Change"
Juli Parrish, University of Denver, CO, "The Other Social Network: Commonplace and Community in the Back Smoker Diaries"
Respondent: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland-Baltimore County, Baltimore
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.06 	 How Our Students Learn: Implications for Teaching
Writing
Capri 105, First Floor
Chair: Philip Sloan, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Philip Sloan, Kent State University, OH, "Writer's Block and the
Problem of the 'Writer'"
Ann Penrose, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Learning Styles,
Teaching Styles: Comparing Composition Students and Teachers"
Thomas Batt, Maine Maritime Academy, Brooksville, "New Frames, New
Learning: The Uses of Frame Analysis in First-Year Composition"
Writing Programs

B.07 	 Look Out Any Window: The Basic Writing Center
Grand Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: William J. Macauley, Jr., University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro,
"Turning Our Backs on the Center: Are We Looking Ahead or Just Wandering Aimlessly?"
Ellen Schendel, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, "Going
Rogue: What We Can Learn from Nontraditional Writing Centers"
William J. Macauley, Jr., University of Nevada, Reno, "Turning toward
Our Future: A Case for Rethinking Writing Centers Assessment and Research"
Respondent: Joan Mullin, Illinois State University, Bloomington

96

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 96

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.08 	 Digital Intellectuals: Students as Public Writers in the
Global Internet Age
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Aaron Ritzenberg, Columbia University, New York, NY, "'Citizen
Critics' in the Age of Digital Citizenship"
Speakers: Briallen Hopper, Yale University, New Haven, CT, "Writing for
the Future"
Karin Gosselink, Yale University, New Haven, CT, "Academic Writers as
Digital Orators"
Aaron Ritzenberg, Columbia University, New York, NY
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.09 	 PDAs; or, Public Displays of Affiliation: Composing at
the Intersections of the Academy, the Games Industry,
and the Gaming Community
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Chair: Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Alex Layne, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Matt Barton, Saint Cloud State University, MN
Nicole Zaguroli, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Theory

B.10 	 Visual Technologies and Culture: Past, Present, and
Future
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Lavinia Hirsu, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Susan H. Delagrange, The Ohio State University, Columbus,
"See(ing) Different: Experiments in Visual Inquiry"
Joddy Murray, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, TX, "Cinematic
Text: Movement and the Affective Domain"
Lavinia Hirsu, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Fighting over Visual
Economies"
Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Cheating the
Senses: Stereoscopic Mania and Nineteenth-Century Visual Literacy"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.11 	 Teaching Scholarly Writing in WID Contexts
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: Ruth Derksen, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
Speakers: Ruth Derksen, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Can-

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 97

97

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

ada, "Blending or Blanding?: Challenges of Integrating Courses for Engineers"
Susan Chaudoir, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "'It's hard to
start swimming if you don't have water': Challenges Student Writers
Face in Composing the Scholarly Essay"
Linda Rowland, Florida Gulf Coast University, Ft. Myers, "Diversifying
Composition: Learning within Public Spaces in an Experiential Fusion
of Composition and Ecology"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.12 	 Assessment, Preparedness, and Retention Strategies
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Nicole Williams, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Alison Reynolds, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Paint by
the Numbers: Addressing the Transformation and Liminality of Composition in Florida High School Writing Assessments"
Gareth Hadyk-DeLodder, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Paint by the
Numbers: Addressing the Transformation and Liminality of Composition in Florida High School Writing Assessments"
Lucas Martorana, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Relationship
Building, Effective Questioning, and Goal Setting: Retention Strategies
in the FYC Class"
Christine Maddox, The Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Relationship
Building, Effective Questioning, and Goal Setting: Retention Strategies
in the FYC Class"
Nicole Williams, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Ready for Success?
Comparing Writing Program Outcomes at Two-Year and Four-Year Institutions and the Preparedness of Transfer Students"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.13 	 Expanding the Conversation about Faith and
Composition: Multiple Perspectives on the Public
Work of Religion
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Speakers: Elizabeth Ellis, University of Maryland, College Park, "Good
Religious Citizens?: Implications of Interdisciplinary Conversations
about Interfaith Literacy for Composition"
Emily Cope, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "How Not to Lose Your
Faith at College: Popular Evangelical Advice about Enacting Faith at
Public Universities"
Melody Pugh, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "From the Pews to the
Pages: Religiously-Engaged Students, Faith Communities, and the Public Work of the Extracurriculum"

98

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 98

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Theory

B.14 	 To Worry Words: Black Women's Literacies and Rhetorics in Public Culture
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Gwendolyn Pough, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Beverly Moss, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "African
American Clubwomen Stepping Out of Their Literacy Comfort Zone"
Gwendolyn Pough, Syracuse University, NY, "'Sapphire Goes to Washington': Race, Rhetoric, Representation, and Angry Black Women"
Eric Darnell Pritchard, University of Texas at Austin, "The Re-education of
Alike Freeman: Black Lesbian Literacies on Film"
Tamika Carey, SUNY Albany, NY, "Re-Composing Ourselves: Rhetorical
Healing in Black Women's Self-Help Books"
Academic Writing

B.15 	 Critical Thinking and Writing in the First-Year Composition Classroom
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Timothy Roe, Eastern Washington University, Cheney
Speakers: Jacqueline (Lyn) Megow, Eastern Washington University,
Cheney, "Critical Thinking and the Multimodal Rhetorical Analysis"
Jimmie L. Coy, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, "Research Writing
and Critical Thinking"
Kathy Rowley, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, "Online Discussion: A Utopian Space for Constructing Knowledge"
Timothy Roe, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, "Teaching Critical
Reading as the First Step to Effective Writing"
Institutional and Professional

B.16 	 Reunion: Public Access and Writing Today
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor
Chair: Jessica Yood, The City University of New York, Bronx
Speakers: Michael Berube, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Semi-Private Access"
Jessica Yood, The City University of New York, Bronx, "The Writing (Studies) Panacea and the New Culture Wars"
Elizabeth Losh, University of California, San Diego, "The Literacy Panic
and the New Culture Wars"
Respondent: Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, Plainfield, NJ

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 99

99

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.17 	 Talent + Effort = Grit: Strategies for Bridging Gaps,
Reaching Insight, and Improving Retention
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Betty Laface, Bainbridge College, Tallahassee, FL
Speakers: Tonya Strickland, Bainbridge College, Tallahassee, FL, "The
Two-Year College Challenge: Building the Bridge to Somewhere"
Amie Seidman, Bainbridge College, Tallahassee, FL, "Creating a 'Happening' Developmental and First-Year Composition Classroom"
Betty Laface, Bainbridge College, Tallahassee, FL, "Building True Grit:
Teaching Criticism, Debate, and Dissent"
Emily Dowd, Bainbridge College, Tallahassee, FL, "Daydreams, Savasana,
and the Moment of Insight: How Yoga Can Put Creativity and Grit Back
into Student Writers"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.18 	 Listening for Currents in the News: Writing, Rhetoric,
News Literacy, and the Public Sphere
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Alice M. Gillam, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee
Speakers: Donna Decker, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, "Using
Rhetorical Situation to Analyze the Ethics of Gender Coverage"
Brian Gogan, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, "From Framing
the News to Framing an Argument: A Research-Based Assignment for
Student Writers"
Virginia Chappell, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, "What Is News
Literacy? Why Is Teaching It Important Public Work?"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.19 	 Characterizing The Honors Research Writing Course:
Student Identity, Digital Literacy, and an Interrogative
Approach to Research
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Jan Roser, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Heidi Naylor, Boise State University, ID, "Conceptions and Misconceptions of the Honors Composition Student: A Quantitative-Qualitative Study"
Christi Nogle, Boise State University, ID, "Digital Promises in Honors
Composition"
Jan Roser, Boise State University, ID, "An Honors Student-Led Interrogative Approach to Research and Identity"

100

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 100

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Research

B.20 	 Rhetorical Strategy and Discourse Analysis
Capri 113, First Floor
Chair: Drew Loewe, St. Edward's University, Austin, TX
Speakers: Jill Belli, The Graduate Center, CUNY, New York, NY, "Drafting
Happiness: Comprehensive Soldier Fitness, Curriculum Design, and the
Composition Classroom"
Anne Wheeler, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Meeting Our Common
Ancestors: Examining the Ethical Implications of Literacy Ethnographies"
Drew Loewe, St. Edward's University, Austin, TX, "Creating Salience
When the Stakes are High (and You're Going to be Interrupted Soon):
Lawyers' Strategies in Supreme Court Oral Arguments, 2009–2011
Terms"
Research

B.21 	 What Coding Means and Why We Should Do It
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor
Chair: Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Rebecca Moore Howard, Syracuse University, NY, "Why This
Humanist Codes: A Genealogy of the Citation Project"
Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Coding as Textual Action"
Jo Mackiewicz, Auburn University, AL, "Challenges in Coding: Some Examples and Partial Solutions"
Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara, "Replicating
Codes: What Does This Mean for Writing Studies?"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.22 	 Accessing Literacy, Literacies as Access: Reimagining
Public Narratives of Disability
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Patricia Dunn, State University of New York, Stony Brook
Speakers: Allison Hitt, Syracuse University, NY, "Who Gets Accommodated? Writing Center as Retrofit to the Composition Classroom"
Patricia Dunn, State University of New York, Stony Brook, "Who Gets Accommodated? Writing Center as Retrofit to the Composition Classroom"
Bernice Olivas, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "What I Mean When I
Say Autism: Re-thinking the Roles of Literacy and Language in Autism
Discourse"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 101

101

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Danielle Nielsen, Murray State University, KY, "Where Do We Go from
Here? Helping Students with Disabilities Write Outside of the Composition Classroom"
Nicole Green, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Heard Any Good Books
Lately? Implications for Reseeing the Sound of Aural Literacy"
Valerie Lotz, University of Alabama, Huntsville, "Flattening Hierarchies of
Pedagogy: How Multimedia Teaching is Redefining Learning Capabilities"
Research

B.23 	 Next Steps?: Responses to Royster's and Kirsch's
Feminist Rhetorical Practices: New Horizons for
Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy Studies
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor
Chair: Lisa Ede, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Speakers: Michael Faris, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Ruben Casas, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Bo Wang, California State University-Fresno
Mary P. Sheridan, University of Louisville, KY
Lee Nickoson, Bowling Green State University, OH
Hui Wu, University of Texas-Tyler
Jacqueline Jones Royster, Georgia Tech, Atlanta
Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University, CA
Gesa E. Kirsch, Bentley University, Waltham, MA
Lisa Ede, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Professional and Technical Writing

B.24 	 Discourse and Difference: The Embodied Nature of
Professional and Technical Writing
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: Jennifer O'Malley, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Li Li, Iowa State University, Ames, "The Myth of Indirectness:
A Comparative Study of Rhetorical Strategies Adopted in American and
Chinese Product Recall Messages"
Rachel Wolford, University of Minnesota Duluth, "Losing Culture On the
Way to Class: Descriptive Versus Prescriptive Teaching Practices in Advanced Communication Courses"
Lauren Cagle, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Gendered Profiles in
Gendered Fields: Leveraging Role-Model Ethos to Recruit Women to
STEM"

102

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 102

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.25 	 "Whose Best Practices?" Disrupting Discourses about
the Work of Composition
Skybox 201, Second Floor
Chair: Allison Wright, University of Houston, TX
Speakers: Sara Cooper, University of Houston, TX, "A Skyline of Jarritos
Bottles: Re-envisioning Multimodality through the Politics and Practices
of Rasquachismo"
Clay Guinn, University of Houston, TX, "Wireless Classrooms, Plugged-In
Students"
Bruce Martin, University of Houston, TX, "The Classroom is the Focus:
Addressing Diversity in the Public University"
Allison Wright, University of Houston, TX, "Managing/Mentoring: The
Rhetoric of TA Training"
Language

B.26 	 World and American English Vernaculars: Assets Not
Deficits
Capri 116, First Floor
Chair: Bret Zawilski, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Naomi Carrington, California State University, Northridge,
"World Englishes and English Vernaculars in College Composition:
Global Meshing as Standard"
Eve Eure, New York, NY, "Writing in Linguistic Codes: Spoken Language
and the Politics of Personhood"
Bobbi Olson, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Teaching Native English
Speakers with/from a Translingual Approach"
Nichole Stanford, CUNY Graduate Center, NY, "Challenging Language
Myths from the Cajun Margins"
Institutional and Professional

B.27 	 Expertise and Meaningful Assessment: (Re)Modeling
the Public Trust in Teachers
Skybox 207, Second Floor
Chair: Paul Walker, Murray State University, KY
Speakers: Jeff Osborne, Murray State University, KY
Paul Walker, Murray State University, KY
Patricia Lynne, Framingham State University, MA

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 103

103

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

B.28 	 From Presentation to Publication: How to Make
Revision Count
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Sidney Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, "Making Your Work Public: The Role of Small Journals"
Marilyn Cooper, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "What's
Your Payoff?"
Amanda Espinosa-Aguilar, Georgia Gwinnett College, Pasco, WA, "Now
What Do I Do With It?"
Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, NJ, "Ghosts of Revision Past: The Drama
of Publishing in CCC Online"
Joonna Smitherman Trapp, Waynesburg University, PA, "Ghosts of Revision Past: The Drama of Publishing in CCC Online"
Information Technologies

B.29 	 Shades of Digital Expertise: Addressing Environments,
Teachers, and the Field
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Christine Maddox Martorana, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Jacob Craig, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "A Method
for Doing Content-Rich Composition in the Twenty-First Century: A
Preliminary Study"
Lisa Schreibersdorf, University of Wisconsin, Fond du Lac, "High Tech
Students on Low Tech Campuses"
Lori De Hertogh, Washington State University, Pullman, "Assessing Students' Technological Authorship"
Information Technologies

B.30 	 Pedagogy in the Clouds: Social Networking and Visual
Literacy in the Composition Classroom
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor
Chair: Martha McKay Canter, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Marohang Limbu, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
"'Social Media' Writing Public Work: Clouding Writing, Crossing Borders, and Crushing Writing Anxieties in First-Year Composition"
Mina Sommerville-Thompson, Tarrant County College, Keller, TX, "Visual Literacy in the Composition Classroom: Sharing in the Connective
Spaces of Social Networking Sites"
Kara Poe Alexander, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Hashtags, Posts, and
Tweets: Digit@l Marketing through Social Media"

104

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 104

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

B.31 	 The ePortfolio Model and the Development of Public
Reflective Composition
Skybox 209, Second Floor
Chair: Joshua King, University of Georgia, Athens
Speakers: Nicholas Crawford, University of Georgia, Athens, "Distributed
Cognition, Distributing Composition: Teaching Writing as Public Work"
Lindsey Harding, University of Georgia, Athens, "Text as Box; Author as
Collector; Student as Designer; Introductory Reflective Essay as Box
Composition"
Joshua King, University of Georgia, Athens, "Inventive Fragments: Using
the ePortfolio to Teach Distributed Digital Writing"
Laurie Norris, University of Georgia, Athens, "Invisible Boundaries: Composition, ePortfolios, and Issues of Access beyond the Classroom's
Walls"
Information Technologies

B.32 	 Net Work: The Intellectual, Social, and Material
Function of Networks in the Composing Process
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Daniel Mahala, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Speakers: Daniel Mahala, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "Promises
and Dangers of the New Cognitivism"
David M. Sheridan, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Fancy Meeting You Here!: The Ecological Function of Multiliteracy Centers in Writing Programs"
Jody Swilky, Drake University, Des Moines, IA, "Making Multimodal Text
Public: Composing as Interaction with Technology and Social Space"
Information Technologies

B.33 	 Theorizing, Teaching, and Evaluating E-Portfolios in
First Year Composition
Skybox 210, Second Floor
Chair: Logan Bearden, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Monique Akassi, Bowie State University, MD, "A Comparative
Analysis on an Effective Teaching Methodology Applied to Electronic
Portfolios for African American Students in Online, Hybrid, and In Class
Writing Courses"
Hogan Hayes, University of California, Davis, "Making a Plan, Sharing a
Plan, Acting on a Plan: Implementing an E-Portfolio Program for a FirstYear Writing Program"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 105

105

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

History

B.34 	 Back to Basics: Making Space for Indigenous
Rhetorical Histories
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Chair: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Native Americans, Intergenerational Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, and
Place Studies: The Construction of Meaning, Society, Rhetoric"
Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg,"Eloh: Cherokee Rhetorics of Land, Religion, History, Law, and Culture"
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "'Sittin' on the
Porch on Little Traverse Bay: Andrew Blackbird and the Rhetorical Performance of Space"
History

B.35 	 "Bowing to the Elders"?: New Understandings of
Expanded Canons
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Chair: John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
"Why I Stopped Worrying about the 'Field' and Learned to 'Do Theory'
(Peter Elbow and Michael Sprinker)"
David Holmes, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA, "Sandra E. Gibbs"
Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Accounting for
Our Bills: Irmscher and Coles"
Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Not Just an Abolitionist: The Lasting Influences of Sharon Crowley"
Deborah Holdstein, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, "The Greatest Generation: The Example of David Bleich"
Respondents: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Chandler
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH

B.36 	 State Standards, College Readiness, and Partnerships
with Local Schools
Skybox 202, Second Floor
Chair: Cynthia Bateman, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Michelle Liptak, Siena College, Kinderhook, NY, "Border Crossing in a First-Year Seminar"
Caroline Wilkinson, University of Louisville, KY, "Extending Conceptions
of 'College Readiness' in the Dual-Credit Classroom"
Samantha NeCamp, Midway College, Georgetown, KY, "Defining Literacy
and College Readiness: The Common Core State Standards and a Receptive Model of Literacy"

106

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 106

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Open Working Meeting of the Transnational
Composition SIG
Room 203, Second Floor
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 107

107

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C.01 	 Incorporating Video Stories from Workplace Professionals into Communication Courses: Mini-Modules
Online to Increase Student Motivation and Learning
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Jonathan Balzotti, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Janet Roberts, Iowa State University, Ames, "How We Assessed
Student Motivation after Their Use of the Mini-Modules"
David Russell, Iowa State University, Ames, "How We Constructed the
Communication Mini-Modules Incorporating Video Clips from Workplace Professionals"
Jonathan Balzotti, Iowa State University, Ames, "How We Assessed the
Students' Learning of Communication Principles through the Use of the
Mini-Modules"
Theory

C.02 	 The Construction of Public Memory: Oral Histories,
Memorials, and History Museums
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Speakers: Laurie Grobman, Penn State University, Berks, "African American Rhetoric and the Cross-Racial Communicative Drama: Founding the
Central Pennsylvania African American Museum"
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY, "Co-authorship
in Oral History: Cross-Cultural Dissonances and Dialogues"
Anne Balay, Indiana University Northwest, Gary, "Stories, Truth, and Identity in Queer Steelworkers' Oral Histories"
Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY, "Interpreting Space:
The Work of Constructing Public Memory through Lincoln Statuary"
Basic Writing

C.03 	 Public Access, Public Work: A Case Study for Multiple
Basic Writing Pilots
Capri 105, First Floor
Chair: Stacy Day, Penn State University-Abington
Speakers: Stacy Day, Penn State University-Abington, "The English Enhancement Pilot: A Narrative of Development, Implementation, and Assessment"
Nicole McClure, Penn State University-Abington, "Diverse Learners in
Digital Spaces: Developing Supplemental Online Instruction for Basic
Writers"
Karen Weekes, Penn State University-Abington, "One University, Demographically Dispersed"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 109

109

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

C.04 	 Rhetorical Movement through Public Pathways
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: Fernando Sanchez, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Kathryn Yankura, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "City
and University as Rhetorical Ecosystem: 'Matters' of Materiality in the
Urban University's Public Work"
Fernando Sanchez, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Walking in the
Polis: Urban Planning's Material Influence on Aristotle's Topoi in the
Rhetoric"
Kyle Vealey, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Urbanized Rhetoric:
Urban Planning, Choice Architecture, and Chance Encounters"
Community, Civic & Public

C.05 	 Public Works and Public Rhetorics: Effects of
Immigration Debates on the Literacy Experiences
of Migrant Students
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Susan Meyers, Seattle University, WA
Speakers: Susan Meyers, Seattle University, WA, "Crisis and Contract: A
History of Literacy and Immigration in the United States"
Rebecca Lorimer, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, "Language Policy
and Resistance in School and Community Literacy Contexts"
Rachel Ketai, El Camino College, Torrance, CA, "Literacy Experiences of
Undocumented Community College Students"
Stephanie Merz, El Camino College, Torrance, CA, "Motivational Structures of Mexican Immigrant Students in the Basic Writing Classroom"
Writing Programs

C.06 	 Re-imagining Writing Programs' Audiences: Insights
from the Open Source Movement about Collaboration
Within and Between University Writing Programs
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Chair: Jonathan Balzotti, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Jonathan Balzotti, Iowa State University, Ames
Geoff Sauer, Iowa State University, Ames
Abhi Rao, Iowa State University, Ames
Tom Lindsley, Iowa State University, Ames

110

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 110

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

C.07 	 The Post-Public Work of Composition: Reaching New
Writers with New Media
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: Webster Newbold, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Speakers: Peter Elliott, Anderson University, Fishers, IN, "Redefining Authorship in Composition"
Katherine Greene, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Something Borrowed, Something New: Teaching Appropriation and Genre in Composition Classes"
Angela Schuricht, Indiana Institute of Technology, Fort Wayne, "E-portfolios: The Intersection of the Personal and the Public"
Information Technologies

C.08 	 Writing 2.0: Participation in Distributed Publics
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Mary Louise Hill, Medaille College, Buffalo, NY
Speakers: Susan Garza, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Using
New Media and Web 2.0 to Expand Traditional Essay Writing in FirstYear Composition"
Mary Louise Hill, Medaille College, Buffalo, NY, "Building Bridges, Encountering Barriers: Implementing a Cross-Cultural Wiki in the Basic
Composition Classroom"
Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, CUNY, NY, "Composing
Universal Design: Composition as Access in New Media"
Christian Smith, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Conflicted Publics: Deliberation and Decision-Making in Wiki Writing Classrooms"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.09 	 Composition in/for Virtual "Public" Spaces: Digital(ly
Mediated) Divides
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Scott D. Banville, Nicholls State University, Thibodaux, LA
Speakers: M. Melissa Elston, Texas A&M University, College Station,
"What's in a Meme? The Rhetoric and Pedagogy of Digital Commonplacing"
Alma Villanueva, Texas A&M University, College Station, "Transnationality via Online Autovideos in First-Year Composition"
Laura Leigh Morris, Texas A&M University, College Station, "Adopting
the Prison Model: Digital Publishing for the Beginning Writer"
Christina V. Cedillo, Northeastern State University, Tahlequah, OK, "Equalizing the Composition Playing Field via Diversifying Access"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 111

111

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Writing Programs

C.10 	 Dual Enrollment/Dual Credit: The Missing and the
Hidden
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Jessica Shumake, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "The Hidden
Curriculum of Dual Enrollment"
Stephen Whitley, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Stepping Stone Paradox: How Dual Credit Problematizes First-Year Writing"
Kristen Weinzapfel, North Central Texas College, Muenster, "What They
Have Written, What They Have Missed: Bridging Gaps between English
IV, Dual-Credit Instruction, and FYC"
Theory

C.11 	 Comics, Culture Jamming and the Campaign for
Authentic Representation
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Jason Custer, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Mary McCall, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "The Discourse behind Dove's Campaign for Real Beauty: 'Making Peace with
Our Bodies'"
Clare Russell, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "'Textual Mischief' and Genre Theory: Explicit Teaching of Culture Jamming in the
Writing Classroom"
Franny Howes, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "A Techne of Comics: ObjectOriented Ontology and Rhetorical Making"
Theory

C.12 	 Occupy Writing: Meditation and the Politics of
Mindfulness in the Classroom
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor
Chair: Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ
Speakers: Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ,
"Writing as Meditation: Liberating Desire, Reconstructing the Social"
Gesa E. Kirsch, Bentley University, Waltham, MA, "Mindfulness and Feminist Rhetorical Traditions"
Respondent: Elizabeth Flynn, Michigan Technological University, Houghton

112

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 112

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.13 	 Rhetoric, Composition and Disciplinary Emergence
Capri 110, First Floor
Chair: John Ackerman, University of Colorado, Boulder
Speakers: John Ackerman, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Capitalizing
on the Cultural Economy of Writing and Rhetoric"
Catherine Chaput, University of Nevada Reno, "How Might Rhetoric and
Composition Compose a Common World?"
Marlia Banning, University of Colorado at Boulder, "What We Don't Know
Can Hurt Us: Info-liberalism, 'Users' and Web 2.0"
Research

C.14 	 Responding to the Public Crisis in Student Writing:
Results from the Study of Seniors' Meaningful Writing
Experiences
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor
Chair: Anne Ellen Geller, St. John's University, New York, NY
Speakers: Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Brookline, MA, "Accounting for Context: Researching Seniors' Meaningful Writing Experiences across Three Institutions"
Anne Ellen Geller, St. John's University, New York, NY, "Waiting for IRB:
Researching Seniors' Meaningful Writing Experiences across Three Institutions"
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Out With the Old, In
With the New: Researching Seniors' Meaningful Writing Experiences
across Three Institutions"
Theory

C.15 	 Expanding Rhetorical Publics: The Zoo, the Cemetery,
and the Chapel
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Chair: Michelle Ballif, The University of Georgia, Athens
Speakers: Steven Mailloux, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles,
CA, "Human Acts, Divine Publics"
Diane Davis, The University of Texas-Austin, "Human Acts, Animal Publics"
Michelle Ballif, The University of Georgia, Athens, "Human Acts, Dead
Publics"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 113

113

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.16 	 Religion, Spirituality, and the Culture of Abundance
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, KY
Speakers: Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, KY, "Creating a Culture of
Abundance in the Classroom"
Scott Wagar, Miami University, Fairborn, OH, "'Really More Spiritual than
Religious': The Spiritual-but-not-Religious Phenomenon and the Composition Classroom"
Myra Salcedo, University of Texas at Arlington, Midland, TX, "Negotiating the 'Sacred' in Secular Writing Spaces: The Rhetoric of Religion in
University Composition Textbooks"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.17 	 Diversity, Disability, and the Needs of Veterans in Our
Classrooms
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Heather Milton, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Shannon Walters, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, "Dramatism and Disability: The Teaching of Writing and Disabled Veterans"
Heather Milton, University of California, Davis, "Invisible Student Veterans: Identifying Veterans' Needs in the Writing Classroom"
Kathleen Hunzer, University of Wisconsin-River Falls, Ellsworth, WI,
"Recognizing, Publicizing, and Embracing an Additional View of Diversity: Neurodiversity, Universal Design, and Multiple Intelligences in the
College Writing Class"
Research

C.18 	 Peer Review and Conferences as Teaching Strategies
for ESL Writers
Capri 113, First Floor
Chair: Susan DeRosa, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic
Speakers: Grant Eckstein, University of California, Davis, "Conducing
One-on-one Conferences with Diverse ESL Writers"
Steve Ferruci, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic, "Re-Considering Peer Review in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Susan DeRosa, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic, "ReConsidering Peer Review in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Keely Mohon, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Student and Instructor Perceptions of Peer Review in the ESL Composition Classroom"

114

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 114

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.19 	 No Longer "At Ease": Fostering Success of Returning
Vets in Two-Year College Writing Classrooms
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Jody Millward, Santa Barbara City College, CA
Speakers: Judith Angona, Ocean County College, Toms River, NJ, "Transitioning from Military to Academic Codes in Speech, Writing, and Collaboration: The Student Perspective"
Michael Dinielli, Chaffey College, Rancho Cucamonga, CA, "When 'Thank
You for Your Service' Isn't Enough: Program Design for Promoting the
Academic Success of Veterans"
Sandra Brown, Ocean County College, Toms River, NJ, "A Civil Response
to Returning Vets: Faculty Identify Challenges and Success Strategies
across the English Curriculum"
Research

C.20 	 State and National Influence on Local Assessment
Rubrics: Looking Before We LEAP
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair: Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Speakers: Michael Geary, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA,
"Reconciling Local and National Learning Outcomes"
Debra Anderson, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA, "Swinging Open the Doors: Letting Cross-institutional Research Inform Local
Pedagogy"
Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College, Fall River, "Looking at
Student Writing through Local and National Lenses"
Farah Habib, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA, "Making the
LEAP: The Rationale and Methodology of the Assessment"
Language

C.21 	 Studies of Students Engaging Translingual and
Translation
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston
Speakers: Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Louisville, KY, "Translingualism in Writing Programs: Negotiating Language Difference in Policies
and Practices"
Jeff Wiemelt, Southeastern Louisiana University, Mandeville, "Contesting
the Discourse of Public Identity in First-Year Writing: From 'Grammar'
to 'Grammaring'"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 115

115

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Amy Lueck, University of Louisville, KY, "Writing a Translingual Script:
Closed Captions in the English Monolingual Hearing Classroom"
Julia Kiernan, Michigan State University, Lansing, "Situating Translingual
Ability as Asset and Resource: Student Choice (and lack thereof)"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.22 	 Global Rhetorics, Racial Identities, and Nonverbal
Rhetorical Action
Capri 116, First Floor
Chair: Travis Maynard, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Chanon Adsanatham, Miami University, Aurora, CO, "Bloody
Rhetoric, Deadly Display: Nonverbal Rhetorical Action in Contemporary Thai Political Protest"
Linh Dich, Miami University, Middletown, "Challenging Representations
of the 'Public': Rewriting Superman as 'Alien' and Asian American"
Indra Mukhopadhyay, University of Southern California, Pasadena, "Toward an Understanding of Global Rhetorics"
Institutional and Professional

C.23 	 The Contingent Academic Workforce: Myths, Facts,
Prospects
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor
Chair: David Laurence, Modern Language Association, New York, NY
Speakers: Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, "Refracting Disciplinarity through the Lens of Contingency"
Karen Madison, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Professional Employment Practices for Non-Tenure-Track Faculty Members"
David Laurence, Modern Language Association, New York, NY, "The NonTenure-Track Academic Workforce: What the Data Tells Us"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.24 	 Private Trauma, Public Compositions: The Effects of
Trauma Narratives on Classroom and Community
Skybox 206, Second Floor
Chair: Cristy Beemer, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Speakers: Cristy Beemer, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Nothing is TMI: The Authenticity of Virtual Breast Cancer Support"
Wendy VanDellon, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Writing Trauma: Rape in the Writing Classroom"
Abby Knoblauch, Kansas State University, Manhattan, "The Assessment of
Trauma/The Trauma of Assessment"

116

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 116

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

C.25 	 Perspectives on Small-College Teaching
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Chair: Joel Wingard, Moravian College, Bethelehem, PA
Speakers: Joel Wingard, Moravian College, Bethelehem, PA, "The Culture-scape: Teaching, Scholarship, and Service at Small Colleges"
Jill Gladstein, Swarthmore College, Aston, PA, "Hidden in Plain Sight: The
Varieties of WPA Positions at Small Colleges"
John Miles, Wofford College, Greer, SC, "Negotiating Boundaries, Developing WAC: Working Towards Tenure at a Small Liberal Arts College"
Courtney Werner, Hope College, Holland, MI, "Getting Hired at a Small
College"
Respondent: Dominic Delli Carpini, York College of Pennsylvania, Dallastown
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.26 	 Making the Personal Public: Storytelling as Academic
Discourse in College Composition
Skybox 207, Second Floor
Chair: Lee Nickoson, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Amanda Athon, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Storytelling and the Basic Writer"
Martha Schaffer, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Theoretical Frameworks of Storytelling"
Shirley Faulkner-Springfield, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Storytelling and First-Year Composition"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.27 	 When Apprentice Writers Can't Read What We Write:
Rethinking WAW Courses in Light of Student
Experiences Reading Primary Research Essays
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Mark Sutton, Kean University, Union, NJ
Speakers: Mark Sutton, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Yes, Instructors Do
Pay Attention to Evals: Modifying WAW Pedagogy Based on Student
Feedback"
Sally Chandler, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Some Strategies for Using
Academic Research Essays as Course Content–and How We Can Do
Better"
Juliana Fernandes, Kean University, Union, NJ, "I Know This Assignment
was Supposed to Help—but It Didn't: (Failed) Connections between
Pre-Reading Support and Student Identities"
Jennifer Helmstaedter, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Laying out Breadcontinued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 117

117

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

crumbs: Scaffolding Primary Research Readings"
Valerie Joszef, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Lost in Translation: Reflections on Concepts from Composition Research that Student Readers are
Least Likely to 'Get'"
Institutional and Professional

C.28 	 "Can't Get No Satisfaction": Can Making Online
Teaching Public Increase Teacher Satisfaction?
Skybox 209, Second Floor
Chair: Jennifer Black, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Jennifer Black, Boise State University, ID, "Into Active Voice:
Leveraging the Power of Public Digital Spaces"
Jill Heney, Boise State University, ID, "Into Active Voice: Leveraging the
Power of Public Digital Spaces"
Stephanie Cox, Boise State University, ID, "Insisting on Community: Collaborative Faculty Development to Increase Online Teacher Satisfaction"
Leslie Jewkes, College of Western Idaho, Nampa, "Insisting on Community: Collaborative Faculty Development to Increase Online Teacher
Satisfaction"
Joy Palmer, College of Western Idaho, Nampa,"Teaching Marginalization,
and Hunger in the Digital Wasteland: The Need for Online Writing Instructors' Teaching Satisfaction"
Melissa Keith, Boise State University, ID, "Teaching Marginalization, and
Hunger in the Digital Wasteland: The Need for Online Writing Instructors' Teaching Satisfaction"
Information Technologies

C.29 	 Blogs and Vlogs: Public Work in the Classroom
Skybox 210, Second Floor
Chair: Ellen Barker, Nicholls State University, New Orleans, LA
Speakers: Ellen Barker, Nicholls State University, New Orleans, LA,
"Blogging Away the BP Oil Spill Blues"
Tracey Hayes, Arizona State University, Phoenix, "Blogs in the Classroom:
Connecting Students to a Public Audience"
Susan Taylor, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Vlogging, Service
Learning and the 21st Century First-Year Composition Classroom: How
New Media Expression and Community Engagement Can Benefit the
Writing Classroom"
Information Technologies

C.30 	 Making It Up as We Go: Online Identities in Motion
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Joshua Eskew, Florida State University, Tallahassee
118

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 118

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Speakers: Laura Detmering, University of Louisville, KY, "Fan Conventions: Negotiating Literacy and Identity on the Web and in the Classroom"
Sarah Brown, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "Unchosen Identities: Helping Students Navigate Their Future Digital Baggage"
Nicholaus Baca, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Identity as a Methodology: Writing, Identity, Queer Theory, and Personal Websites"
Information Technologies

C.31 	 The New Mass Literacy of Proceduracy: Ideologies,
Implementations, and Implications
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Brian Ballentine, West Virginia University, Morgantown
Speakers: Chris Lindgren, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Building a Smarter Computing Culture with Proceduracy"
Kevin Brock, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "The Public Work
of Procedural Pedagogy"
Annette Vee, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Ideologies of a New Mass Literacy"
Creative Writing

C.32 	 The Public Work of Memoir: Using the Personal to
Struggle for Collective Justice
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor
Chair: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY, "Class Politics: Personal
Testimony, Public Duty, and the Arab Spring"
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "From Po Ho on
Dope to PhD: The Creation of a 'Me'"
Laura Gray-Rosendale, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, "College
Girl: Intersecting the Personal with the Pedagogical"
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman, "Bootstraps: The
Dialectic of Representation"
James Seitz, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Down by the Schoolyard: From
Pedagogical Education to Public Narrative"
Respondent: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
History

C.33 	 Interrogating Rhetorics of Gendered Space: Flappers,
Firefighters, and Submariners
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor
Chair: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Speakers: Lindal Buchanan, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "In-

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 119

119

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

tegrating the U.S. Submarine Fleet: Charting Changing Perceptions of
Gender and Space"
Sarah Moseley, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Making the Firehouse a Home: Women's Entrance into Firefighting"
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Banning the Bob: Women's Hair as Rhetorical Performance in 1920s America"
Respondent: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Community, Civic & Public

C.34 	 Breaking the Silence: African Americans Creating
Rhetorical Spaces
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Joseph Cirio, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Elizabeth Catchings, University of California, Irvine "Writing
around the Silent Scandal: Public Writing's Promise of Becoming and
Afro-Pessimist Thought"
Michael Dimmick, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Literacies of Citizenship: Crafting African American Rhetorical Space in the Civil Rights
Movement"
Collin Craig, Wake Forest University, Winston Salem, NC, "'We Learn
How to Smile and Nod': Framing Critical Distance as African American
Rhetorical Strategy"
Theory

C.35 	 Function and Public Rhetoric
Skybox 201, Second Floor
Chair: Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound, WA
Speakers: Michael Donnelly, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Freedom
of Hatespeech: The Function of 'Public' Rhetoric(s) in a Digital Culture"
Lou Thompson, Texas Woman's University, Denton, "A Bridge to Where?
Epideictic Permutations of the Mike O'Callaghan-Pat Tillman Memorial"
Leigh Elion, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Constructing the Humanities: A Theorization of University of Wisconsin-Madison's 30-Year
Campus Plan"

Open Working Meeting of the Committee on the Major in
Writing and Rhetoric
Room 203, Second Floor
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, NJ
120

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 120

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.02 Negotiation, Sharing, and the Rhetoric of
Correspondence
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia,
PA, "The Art and Rhetorical Craft of Correspondence"
Bruce McComiskey, University of Alabama at Birmingham, "A Defense of
Dialectic: Negotiation in Writing"
Ashley Evans, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Blurring Social and
Academic Literacies: Visual Plagiarism, the Sharing Culture of the Internet, and the Net Generation"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.03 	 Embodiment, Disability, and the Idea of Normativity
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Pamela Saunders, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Nicole Quackenbush, University of Wyoming, Laramie, "SelfCare as Student Care and Vice Versa: Risk, Response-ability, and Disability Disclosure in the FYC Classroom"
Catherine DeLazzero, Teachers College, Columbia University, Grafton, IL,
"Writing Bodies in First-Year Composition and the World Beyond"
Pamela Saunders, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Navigating
Normativity: Two Case Studies of Writers on the Spectrum"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.04 	 Challenges for Writers from China and India
Capri 105, First Floor
Chair: Jill McKay Chrobak, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Yun Lin, Knox College, Galesburg, IL, "Exploring the Gap:
Challenges Facing ESL Student Writers"
Moushumi Biswas, University of Texas at El Paso, "Conceptualizing FYC
for Multilingual Writers: Focus on Students from the Indian Subcontinent"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.05 	 Meeting Writers Halfway: Experiences Working with
the Upper-Division and Graduate Writing Student
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: David Hawkins, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 123

123

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Speakers: Paul Ketzle, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Saying What
We Don't Mean: Writing about The Simpsons, Hyper-Irony, and The
Modern Era of Satire"
Maximilian Werner, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Writing about War
and the Environment: 'Teaching' Controversial Subjects in Higher Education"
David Hawkins, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Workshopping the
Thesis and Dissertation: Challenges in the Interdisciplinary Graduate
Writing Classroom"
Information Technologies

D.06 	 Composing Works for Public(s): Employing Multimodal Technologies to Connect Students, Ideas, and
Audiences in the First-Year Composition Classroom
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: Michelle Robinson, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Ellie Isenhart, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Choosing
Public(s): Basic Writers' Multimodal Compositions Working in Public
Spaces"
Keri Mathis, Georgia Gwinnett College, Lawrenceville, "Re-Mediating Private Writing: Reflecting on a New-Media Themed First-Year Composition Course"
Jennie Vaughn, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "'Public-izing' Student
Writing: Revision via Multimodal Platforms"
Basic Writing

D.07 	 Approximating the University: Novices Practicing
Knowledge in the Basic Writing Classroom
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Chair: Karen Gocsik, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Speakers: Cynthia Tobery, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, "Writing Together: How Collaboration Enhances (and Limits) Knowledge Construction"
Karen Gocsik, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, "Assembling Knowledge: How Novice Writers Practice Knowing"
Laura Braunstein, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, "Entering the Conversation: How Sources Support and Impede Learning"

124

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 124

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

D.08 	 Community-Based Rhetorics as Always/Already Public
Work: African American and Chican@ Responses to
Rhetorics of Racism, Oppression, and Silencing
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Marcos Del Hierro, Texas A&M, College Station
Speakers: Marcos Del Hierro, Texas A&M, College Station, "By Any Rhetorical Means Neccessary: What Hip-Hop Technical Rhetorics Teach Us
about Public Work"
Catalina Bartlett, Texas A&M, College Station, "Librotraficante or Book
Trafficking: 'Smuggling' Chican@ Literatures and Rhetorics"
Victor Del Hierro, Texas A&M, College Station, "'Let Me In!': The Hiphop
Cipher as an Inclusive Rhetorical Practice"
Language

D.09 	 The Global Work of English
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California Davis
Speakers: Debarati Dutta, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Constituting Global Publics: Transcultural Exchanges in First-Year Writing"
Suzanne Malley, Columbia College, Chicago, "Translanguaging in a Globally-networked Learning Environment"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.10 	 Being There: The Rhetoricity of Queer Spaces,
Identities and Bodies
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Trixie Smith, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Simone West, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "What
Psychogeographic Practices Have to Offer Queer Ways of Re-Imagining
Relationships to Public and Social Spaces"
Madhu Narayan, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "From Metaphor to Materiality: The Rhetoricity of the Lesbian Herstory Archives"
Casey Miles, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Queer Methodological Praxis: A Look into the Gender Project"
Kathleen Livingston, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Developing an Erotic Vocabulary: Consent as a Queer Community-Based Approach"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 125

125

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Theory

D.11 	 Tracing Images: Public Production and Composing
Rhetoric
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Dustin Morris, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater
Speakers: Danielle Smorol, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, "A
Rural Ghost Bike: Exploring the Intersection of Material Rhetoric and
Place as Rhetoric"
Ben Smith, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, "When Shields Become
Weapons: The Rhetoric of Strength in Captain America"
Dustin Morris, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, "A Public Image of
Hope: Redefining Authenticity in the Digital Age"
Writing Programs

D.12 	 The New "Basic Writing": A WAC/WID Program and
Public Literacy
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Laura Elmer, Auburn University, AL, "Composing Learning for
Prospective Employers: The Uses of a Career ePortfolio Project"
Jay Lamar, Auburn University, AL, "Composing Research for a Public Audience: A Hybrid Genre for Public Discourse"
Margaret Marshall, Auburn University, AL, "Composing a University-wide
Writing Initiative: Moving Within and Beyond the University"
Theory

D.13 	 Public Works and the Architectures of Composition
Capri 110, First Floor
Chair: Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "Writing/Architecting: Structured Authoring and the Future of Writing Instruction"
Stephen Schneider, University of Louisville, KY, "A Public in Eclipse?
Education and Public Works in the New Deal Era"
Jeff Pruchnic, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "Parametric Pedagogies: Adaptive Learning Environments and the New Architecture of
Writing Instruction"
Andy Engel, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "Spatial Overload:
Choice and Inscription in Mediated Public Spaces"

126

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 126

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Theory

D.14 	 Expanding the Public Work of Composition: The Role
of Rhetoric
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Jolivette Mecenas, University of La Verne, CA
Speakers: Judy Holiday, University of La Verne, CA, "The Public Sphere:
A Fabric of Narrative Threads"
Jolivette Mecenas, University of La Verne, CA, "Reading and Composing
Citizenship Genres as Spaces of Encounter"
Georganne Nordstrom, University of Hawai'i Mānoa, "Rhetorical Sovereignty: Re-Writing Public Discourse"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.15 	 The Public Hopes of Composition
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Roseanne Gatto, St. John's University, Queens, NY
Speakers: Adam Koehler, Manhattan College, Riverdale, NY
Tara Roeder, St. John's University, Queens, NY
Daniel Collins, Manhattan College, Bronx, NY
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.16 	 Taking On What We Take for Granted: Digital
Portfolios, Digital Underlife, and Issues of Digital
Copyright
Capri 113, First Floor
Chair: Janine Morris, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Janine Morris, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Technology and
the Instructor: Private Use and Public Concern for Copyright"
Heather Williams, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Digital Composing and
Process Pedagogy: Facilitating the Student as Curator"
Hollie Adams, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, "Lecture Unplugged:
The Benefits and Consequences of Suppressing Digital Underlife"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.17 	 Lessons Learned: Three Genres and TETYC
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Jeffrey Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Peter Wayne Moe, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "What Works
for Me, and for that Matter, for Us"
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA, "Reviewing Reviews: The Public Work of the Review Section of TETYC"
Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA, "The Instructional Note and
the Professionalization of Two-Year College English Teaching"
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 127

127

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Research

D.18 	 Re-reading Christensen and Appalachian Textbooks:
Coding Risk in Basic Writing Progress
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: Patrick Ryan, Western Connecticut State University, Danbury
Speakers: Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Mythic
Literacies: Re-Reading Appalachian Settlement School Textbooks"
Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Discourse Strategies: Coding Risk in Basic Writing Programs"
Patrick Ryan, Western Connecticut State University, Danbury, "Francis
Christensen's A Generative Rhetoric of the Sentence: Fifty Years Later"
Professional and Technical Writing

D.19 	 Medical Documentation as Persuasive Discourse
Capri 116, First Floor
Chair: Elizabeth L. Angeli, Towson University, Baltimore, MD
Speakers: Catherine Gouge, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Improving Patient Discharge Instructions"
Debra Burleson, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Transitions of Care: Negotiating the Discharge Summary"
Elizabeth L. Angeli, Towson University, Baltimore, MD, "The Public Writing of Emergency Medical Professionals"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.20 	 Know–Speak–Listen - See: Breaching Literacy
Boundaries in the Composition Classroom
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair: Rachel Meads-Jardine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Melissa Helquist, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Seeing Absence: ASL's Invisibility in a Deaf Linguistic Landscape"
Rachel Meads-Jardine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Listening as
Literate Practice: Insights from Blind and Low Vision Individuals"
Sundy Watanabe, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Speaking Out–Even
Speaking at All: Transgressing Boundaries in a Multimodal Composition
Classroom"
Tiffany Rousculp, Salt Lake Community College, UT, "Who Knows?:
Disrupting the Security of Rhetorical Expertise in a Composition Classroom"

128

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 128

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Research

D.21 	 Race and Writing Assessment: Cross-Disciplinary
Frameworks for Impact Analysis
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor
Chair: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington
Speaker: Nancy Glazer, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, "Bringing the Test to the Teachers: Building a Bridge to a Standardized Writing Test"
Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Legal and
Philosophical Frameworks for Empirical Analysis: Validation of Use in
Writing Assessment"
Doug Baldwin, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, NJ, "Aiming for
Technical Quality in Writing Assessment: Questions and Some (Tentatively Proposed) Answers"
Respondent: Norbert Elliot, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark
Research

D.22 	 Research on Reflection and Composing in Teacher
Development
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor
Chair: Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Suzie Null, Fort Lewis College, Durango, CO
Kelly Simon, University of California, Santa Barbara
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.23 	 Using Architecture, TED, and Design Pedagogies to
Teach Writing
Skybox 206, Second Floor
Chair: Jeff Naftzinger, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Stacey Van Dahm, Philadelphia University, PA, "Adapting Design Pedagogies to the Writing Classroom"
Lauren Mitchell, Clemson University, Asheville, SC, "The Architectural
Diagram as Rhetorical Invention"
Tim Jensen, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "In the Spirit of the
Symposium: Public Presentation in the 21st Century"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 129

129

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

D.24 	 Understanding and Supporting New Teachers in
Uncertain Times
Skybox 207, Second Floor
Chair: Jean Williams, Educational Testing Service (ETS), Lawrence Twp,
NJ
Speakers: JT Cox, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Apprenticeship
of Response: How the Attitudes and Beliefs of Pre-Service Teachers
Spill onto the Page"
Catherine Cucinella, California State University, San Marcos, "Legitimizing the Liminal Position of TAs"
Jean Williams, Educational Testing Service (ETS), Lawrence Twp, NJ, "Dilemmas in Increasing the African American Teaching Pool: Exploring
Writing Strategies of African American Students"
Information Technologies

D.25 	 Between Making and Remaking: Copyright, Copyleft,
and Multimodal Composition
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Donora Hillard, Wayne State University, Canton, MI
Speakers: L. Andrew Cooper, University of Louisville, KY, "Remake Culture: The Basic Work of Multimodal Composition in Media Studies"
Robin Evans, Wilberforce University, Dayton, OH, "Making Bricks Without Straw: Implementing Online Writing Instruction (OWI) using Opensourced Tools"
Laural Adams, Bowling Green State University, OH, "The New Mission
Impossible: OER and Ecoliteracy as Modes of Resistance to the Corporatization of Higher Education"
Institutional and Professional

D.26 	 The CWPA Diversity Project
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor
Chair: Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Charles Paine, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University, Tolland
Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Kathleen Ryan, University of Montana, Missoula
Respondent: Joseph Janangelo, Loyola University, Chicago, IL

130

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 130

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.27 	 Procedural Rhetorics In, On, and About the Public
Writing of Videogamers
Skybox 209, Second Floor
Chair: Richard Colby, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: Richard Colby, University of Denver, CO, "Gaming Literacies
in Transmedia Shift"
Rebekah Shultz Colby, University of Denver, CO, "Gaming Literacies and
the Ideologies of Play"
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, Frostburg, MD, "Gaming as a Lens
for Rhetorical Practice"
Basic Writing

D.28 	 Concurrent Literacies: Digital Literacy and Basic
Writing
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Linda Howell, University of North Florida, Jacksonville
Speakers: Rachael Jordan, California State University Northridge, "Engaging in Digital Public Space: Facebook and Basic Writing Students"
Leslie Norris, Rappahannock Community College, Glenns, VA, "Research
Study Results: The Effects of Digital Technology on Basic Writing"
Lauren Williams, CUNY Bronx Community College, NY, "Rethinking Basic Writing for a Digital Future: Replacing Assimilation with an Agenda
of Empowerment"
Creative Writing

D.29 	 Experimental Writing/Experimental Teaching: Making
Space for the Personal
Skybox 210, Second Floor
Chair: Peggy Woods, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Claudia Ricci, University at Albany, SUNY, "Flip the Script on
Life Stories"
Peggy Woods, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Mixing Rhetoric/
Mixing Poetics: Intersecting the Personal and the Academic"
Respondent: Sondra Perl, Lehman College, Bronx, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 131

131

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.30 	 Mobile, Social, Public: Understanding the Publicness
of New Media Composition Practices
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Jason Kalin, DePaul University, Raleigh, NC
Speakers: Jordan Frith, University of North Texas, Denton, "Foursquare
and Public Annotation: Understanding Location-Based Composition"
Meagan Kittle Autry, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "(In)Visible
Composing: Social Media and the Public Composition of Vernacular and
Occluded Genres"
Jason Kalin, DePaul University, Raleigh, NC, "Walking and Writing in
Place: Mobile Media and the Invention of Memory"
Institutional and Professional

D.31 	 Constructions of Composition Students as
Exigencies for Change: Four Critical Perspectives
on Going Public
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Chair: Nicole Varty, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Jessica Winck, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor, "Constructions of Students Online: An Examination of Teacher-Generated
Discourse"
Becky Morrison, Eastern Michigan University, Howell, "Exploring the
Identity Formation of First-Year Writing Students"
Aylen Rounds, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor, "Where Students
Are: A Cross-Disciplinary Investigation of Seating Arrangement, Identity, and Performance in the Composition Classroom"
Kelly Waldschmidt, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor, "Examination of a Summer Bridge Program: Student Identity and Transition"
History

D.32 	 Making the Translingual Past Visible:
Counter-Histories of Writing Instruction
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Chair: Connie Kendall Theado, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Lisa Arnold, American University of Beirut, Lebanon, "A Case
Study in Composition's Transnational and Multilingual History: Writing
Instruction at the American University of Beirut"
Lance Cummings, Miami University of Ohio, "Belletristic Rhetoric and
Discourses of Language Acquisition: A Transdisciplinary Approach to
Composition History"
Brian Ray, University of Nebraska at Kearney, "Americanization and
Teacher-Training: Common Citizens as Proto-ESL Instructors"

132

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 132

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

D.33 	 Literacy in Context: African and Creole Discourse
Practices
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Rachel Schwartz, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Nora McCook, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Literacy
in Expansive Contexts: A Case for Creole in Haiti"
Tika Lamsal, University of Louisville, KY, "Imagining Alternatives: Crosscultural and Multilingual Mediations in Refugee Literacies"
Megan Schoen, La Salle University, Lafayette, IN, "Making African Rhetorics Public: Discourse and Democracy in Botswana"
Community, Civic & Public

D.34 	 Public Work in Required Composition Classes: Three
Pedagogical Possibilities
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor
Chair: Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth
Speakers: Callie Kostelich, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Discovering Discourse: Analyzing and Evaluating Public Identities in the
Composition Classroom"
Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Negotiating Public Work as WPA and Teacher: Community Engagement and the FYC
Common Syllabus"
Christopher Foree, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Citizen Brain:
Shaping Students' Civic Identity Through Public Writing and Reflection"

Open Working Meeting of the Task Force on Dual Credit/
Concurrent Enrollment Policy and Best Practices
Room 203, Second Floor
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 133

133

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

of its means of persuasion. For various reasons—both internal, having to do with
the nature of our discipline and its members, and external, concerning political
and rhetorical realities–those efforts gained minimal traction. Yet it's not hopelessly naïve to imagine certain kinds of research that can yet stir stakeholders.
Our challenge in advocating for literacy studies, argues Kent Williamson, Executive Director of NCTE, is to resist the urge to direct our arguments internally,
to those in our own professional community. Our traditions and structures tend to
bias us towards thinking about the passage of a statement or resolution within our
professional organizations as an end in itself. In most cases, this is just a first step
in a much wider campaign. As we have come to understand that administrators
across the disciplinary spectrum and state and national level policymakers are
critical audiences, our advocacy strategies are necessarily shifting. Advocates for
literacy studies gain authority when we make our case in cooperation with those
outside of our discipline.
The Modern Languages Association, primarily known by the public for its
style guidelines for citing and documenting resources, has a much wider role
when it comes to literacy instruction. In this presentation, Rosemary Feal, Executive Director of MLA, will discuss the organization's historic mission, analyze
the factors that come into play when higher education organizations work to encourage public engagement and support, and give an overview of what the MLA
is doing today to reach our many publics.
Speakers:
Doug Hesse
Past Chair, Conference on College Composition and Communication
University of Denver
"Strategic Research for Disinclined Stakeholders: Lessons from a Quick and
Spotted History"
Kent Williamson
Executive Director of the National Council of Teachers of English
"Speaking to Those outside our Discipline"
Rosemary Feal
Executive Director of the Modern Languages Association
"Public Engagement with Literacy Instruction, MLA Style"

138

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 138

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Basic Writing

E.02 	 The Thin and Imaginary Border between Remedial and
Degree-Credit Composition: Using Multiple Measures
to Assess Student Readiness for College Reading and
Writing
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Wausau
Speakers: Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, Wausau,
"Ready or Not: The Inaccuracy of Standardized Tests in Placing Students in Remedial Courses"
Cassandra Phillips, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha, "Ready to Write:
Multiple Measures and Learning the Writing Process"
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin Marathon County, Wausau, "Using
Multiple Measures to Assess Student Readiness"
Basic Writing

E.03 	 Aligning Conversations: Local College-Readiness
Initiatives
Capri 105, First Floor
Chair: Miriam Rowntree, University of North Texas, Keller
Speakers: Shawn Casey, Columbus State Community College, OH, "Implementing the Common Core State Standards: Notes from a High School /
Higher Education Classroom Collaboration"
Lynne Rhodes, University of South Carolina, Aiken, "The South Carolina
Alignment Project"
Robert Derr, Danville Community College, VA, "Bridging the Gap Between High School Writing and College Composition Courses: Basic
Writing Programs That Will Help Increase Community Literacy"
Academic Writing

E.04 	 Public Works: How Writing Centers Build and Sustain
Supportive Communities for Dissertators
Capri 106, First Floor
Chair: Katie Levin, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities
Speakers: Moira Ozias, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Katie Levin, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities
Nancy Karls, University of Wisconsin-Madison

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 139

139

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Research

E.05 	 Research on Less Prepared or Less Successful Writers
Capri 107, First Floor
Chair: Paul Johnson, Winona State University, MN
Speakers: Ethan Krase, Winona State University, MN, "'Getting By': Case
Studies of Two Writers Struggling from First-Year Composition to Writing in the Disciplines"
Paul Johnson, Winona State University, MN, "'Getting By': Case Studies
of Two Writers Struggling from First-Year Composition to Writing in
the Disciplines"
Mary French, Tarrant County College, Arlington, TX, "The First-Year
Composition Course: Help for Those 'Left Behind'"
Todd Snyder, Siena College, Rensselaer, NY, "Rhetoric(s) of the College
Degree: Academic Ethos in Rural Appalachia"
Community, Civic & Public

E.06 	 "Going Public" with Pregnancy Rhetoric: Redefining
Technical Communication, Historiography, and
Community Action Research
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
Chair: Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
"'This is not a how-to book': Midwives, Doulas, and Feminist Research
in Technical Communication"
Heather Adams, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Deepening Our Feminist 'Ethics of Hope and Care': The Means and Ends of
Public Scholarship"
Jenna Vinson, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Putting Feminist Rhetorical
Analysis to Public Use: Methods and Ethical Implications of Community Research Briefs"
Basic Writing

E.07 	 Basic Writer as Lightening Rod, Rosetta Stone, and
Crucible: Access, Accountability, Hispanic-Serving
Institutions, and Texas
Capri 104, First Floor
Chair: Susan Wolff Murphy, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Speakers: Chimene Burnett, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Institutional Identity and the Basic Writer"
Susan Wolff Murphy, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Evaluation
of a Basic Writing Program"

140

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 140

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Chelsea Mikulencak, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christ, Corpus Christi, TX, "Evaluation of a Basic Writing Program"
Michelle Garza, San Antonio College, TX, "(Re)Evaluating the Public: An
Examination of Current Approaches to the Teaching of Writing and Argument"
Writing Programs

E.08 	 Supporting Integrated Writing Research through
Rhizomatic Literate Activity
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: Joyce Walker, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Kristi McDuffie, Illinois State University, Normal, "The Grassroots Writing Research Journal (GWRJ)"
Emily Johnston, Illinois State University, Normal, "The Writing Instruction
Exchange (WIE)"
Summer Qabazard, Illinois State University, Normal, "The Mobile Composition and Community Action Project (MCCAP)"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.09 	 Writing and/as Design: Identity Events in the Margins
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Sidney Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Raul Sanchez, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Writing the
Postcolonial Event"
Maria Rogal, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Designing Identity: Mayans Write Their Culture"
Respondent: Laurie Gries, University of Florida, Gainesville
Community, Civic & Public

E.10 	 Same Work, Different Publics: Producing Community
Journalism
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Michael Benton, Bluegrass Community and Technical College,
Lexington, KY
Speakers: Danny Mayer, Bluegrass Community and Technical College,
Lexington, KY, "Academic Labor in the Community"
Beth Connors-Manke, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Developing
Writers in the Community"
Wesley Houp, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "Watershed Moments: Writing Rivers and Community in Advanced Comp"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 141

141

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.11 	 Moving Genres: Public and Academic Writing in
College Classes
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Lydia Wilkes, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Christopher Basgier, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Integrating Personal Writing and Academic Writing through Meta-Genre"
Erin Hadlock, United States Military Academy, West Point, NY, "From
Public Servant to Private Citizen: How Military Genres Shape the Rhetorical Knowledge of Student-Veterans"
Lydia Wilkes, Indiana University, Bloomington, "From Popular to Civic:
The Social Actions of Video Games and Memoir"
Respondent: Carolyn Miller, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.12 	 The Pleasures of Teaching Composition: Reading and
Responding to Student Writers
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor
This session will be interactive, with participants reading a student draft and
engaging in a dialogue about student writing.
Chair: Nancy Sommers, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA
Speakers: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University, Tempe
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Nancy Sommers, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA
Basic Writing

E.13 	 Social Connectedness and Student Support:
Enhancing Success and Retention in the Transition
to College-Ready
Capri 110, First Floor
Chair: Erin Lehman, Ivy Tech Community College, Columbus, IN
Speakers: Hope Parisi, Kingsborough Community College/ CUNY, Brooklyn, "Competing and Converging Rhetorics: A Writing Tutorial for Taking a Student Support Services and Basic Writing Collaboration Public"
Zandree Stidham, University of New Mexico-Los Alamos, "This Is Why
We Leave. This Is Why We Stay.: Forces Impacting the Trajectory of
Transitioning Developmental Students"
Lynn Shelly, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Marginality and Mattering: Basic Writing as Public Work"

142

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 142

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Academic Writing

E.15 	 From Resource to Resourcefulness: English-Library
Collaboration to Improve Student Learning in Library
Instruction
Capri 111, First Floor
Chair: Reid Sunahara, Kapiolani Community College, Honolulu, HI
Speakers: Reid Sunahara, Kapiolani Community College, Honolulu, HI
Porscha dela Fuente, Kapi'olani Community College, Honolulu, HI, "Mainstreaming Learning and Library Instruction in an ALP Classroom"
Joyce Tokuda, Kapi'olani Community College, Honolulu, HI
Community, Civic & Public

E.16 	 More than Just Another Research Site: How
Transnationalism is Challenging New Literacy Studies
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Christa Olson, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Kate Viera, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI,
"How Literacy Alienates Migrants in Transnational Contexts"
Christa Olson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Animating Interests:
Literacy Training, Walt Disney, and the Pursuit of Hemispheric Stability"
Amy Wan, Queens College, CUNY, Flushing, NY, "Bread Baking as Literacy Myth Busting"
History

E.17 	 Sister Resisters: A Rhetorical Record of Women
Writing for Public Reform
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor
Chair: Catherine Hobbs, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Anna Gurley, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Know One
Another: Jane Addams, the Social Claim, and Burkean Identification"
Rachel Jackson, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Angie Debo, Native
Representation, and Anti-Communist Censorship in the Federal Writers'
Project"
Bridget O'Rourke, Elmhurst College, Chicago, IL, "Un-Settling Americanism: Hilda Satt Polacheck's Narrative Revision of the Settlement Experience"
Respondent: Catherine Hobbs, University of Oklahoma, Norman

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 143

143

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

E.18 	 Public Mission, Private Funds: Saving the Community
College Mission in an Age of Privatization
Capri 113, First Floor
Chair: Keith Kroll, Kalamazoo Valley Community College, MI
Speakers: Lisa Mahle-Grisez, Sinclair Community College, Dayton, OH,
"Public Mission, Private Funds: The Growing Impact of Venture Philanthropy on Composition as Illustrated by The Gates Foundation's Completion Agenda"
Andrea Osteen, Mesa Community College, Scottsdale, AZ, "Making Private Public: Teaching in the For-Profit Sector"
Keith Kroll, Kalamazoo Valley Community College, MI, "The End of the
Community College English Profession"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.19 	 "A little less conversation and a little more action
please.": A Guerrilla Pedagogy That Arms Students
with QR Codes, Public Art, and Visual Rhetoric
Capri 114, First Floor
Chair: Paul Muhlhauser, McDaniel College, Westminister, MD
Speakers: Vanessa Cozza, Washington State University, Pullman, "'Could
art change the world?': The Rhetoric of Public Street Art and Student
Engagement"
Ruijie Zhao, Parkland College, Champaign, IL, "Teaching through the Revolving Door of Public/Private Work: A Basic Writing Spatial and Visual
Approach"
Paul Muhlhauser, McDaniel College, Westminster, MD, "'More information please': QR Codes, Digital Vandalism, and Getting the Word Out"
Information Technologies

E.20 	 University of California Online Education: A Report
and Assessment from Writing Faculty
Capri 115, First Floor
Chair: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Speakers: Natalie Schonfeld, University of California, Irvine
Emily Rogers, University of California, Irvine
Carl Whithaus, University of California, Davis
Daniel Gross, University of California, Irvine
Ava Arndt, University of California, Los Angeles
Kathie Levin, University of California, Irvine

144

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 144

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Research

E.21 	 Video Methodologies: Researching on the Tube
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor
Chair: Geoffrey Carter, Saginaw Valley State University, MI
Speakers: Robert Leston, New York City College of Technology, New
York, "The Context"
Sarah Arroyo, California State University at Long Beach, "The Challenges"
Bahareh Alaei-Johnson, California State University at Long Beach, "Two
Approaches: The 'Displays'"
Community, Civic & Public

E.22 	 Socially Networked Writing and Rhetorical Ecologies
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Kacie Kiser, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Scott Kowalewski, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Writing Publics,
Public Writing: Considering Online Forums as Specialized Publics in
Existing Rhetorical Ecologies"
Joannah Portman Daley, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Working
to Save the North Woods: Social Media-Based Civic Action and Why
Some Students Can't See the Forest for the Trees"
Katharine Rodger, University of California, Davis, "Writing Ourselves into
Citizens: Writing, Social Media, and Environmental Activism"
Phill Alexander, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Authors Assemble: Using The Facebook Games Model to do the Public Work of
Collaborative Writing"
History

E.23 	 Brother(s) . . . Outsider(s): Rhetorics in the Public
Work of Social and Political Movements
Capri 116, First Floor
Chair: Michelle Bachelor Robinson, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Michelle Bachelor Robinson, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Second Look: Reconsidering Booker T. Washington . . . His Words
and His Work"
Syreeta Lyons-Burns, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Bayard Rustin:
a Pluralistic Identity amid a World Binaries"
Kevin Browne, Syracuse University, NY, "Harlem's West Indian Outsiders:
Vernacular Rhetoric and the Politics of Integration"
Respondent: Keith Gilyard, The Pennsylvania State University, College
Park

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 145

145

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.24 	 Global Literacies Cross-cultural Rhetoric, and
International Students in the American University
and Beyond
Skybox 206, Second Floor
Chair: Joe Wagner, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Angela Rounsaville, University of Central Florida, Orlando,
"Finding a Place of Praxis for a Global Literacy Curriculum"
Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge, "The Public Value of Teaching Writing in an Intensive English Program: A Problem of
Transferability to the FYC Classroom"
Chalice Randazzo Green, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Listening,
Laying Beside, and Turning Back: Critically Reflexive Outcomes of
Cross-Cultural Conversations"
Institutional and Professional

E.25 	 Preprofessionalism and the Graduate Student Editor
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor
Chair: Summar Sparks, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Jenna Pack, University of Arizona, Tucson, "The Structure of
Service: What is the Role of the Graduate Student Editor?"
Summar Sparks, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "The
Graduate Editor as a 'Public' Figure"
Elizabeth Knauss, University of Delaware, Newark, "Making the Jump:
Where Does the Preprofessionalized Graduate Go?"
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman, "Making the
Jump: Where Does the Preprofessionalized Graduate Go?"
Shane Borrowman, The University of Montana Western, Dillon, "Launching and Landing: Editing and the New Assistant Professor"
Respondent: Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware, Newark
Theory

E.26 	 Rhetorical Futures: Revisiting Attachments,
Reinvigorating Commitments, Revising Disciplinary
Narratives
Skybox 207, Second Floor
Chair: Kellie Sharp-Hoskins, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Kellie Sharp-Hoskins, Illinois State University, Normal, "Disciplinary Attachments: Recognizing Stability and Change within Rhetoric
and Composition"
Kathleen Daly, Illinois State University, Normal, "Contending with Change
and the Imperative for Permanence"
Chris Mays, Illinois State University, Normal, "Reasserting Rhetoric: Theoretically, Pedagogically"
146

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 146

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Writing Programs

E.27 	 Perceptual Presence: Creating Exceptional Teaching
and Tutoring in an Online Modality
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Melody Pickle, Kaplan University, Davenport, IA
Speakers: Joni Boone, Kaplan University, Davenport, IA, "Video Feedback
and the Implications of Presence"
Melody Pickle, Kaplan University, Davenport, IA, "Developing Social
Presence in the Writing Center"
Kurtis Clements, Kaplan University, Davenport, IA, "Understanding Social
Presence"
Information Technologies

E.28 	 Are There No Teachers Here?: Automating Teaching
and Assessment
Skybox 209, Second Floor
Chair: Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, College Station
Speakers: Ben Fink, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Faking It:
How We Get Fooled When We Argue About AES (Automated Essay
Scoring), and What We Need to Know so We Won't Get Fooled Again"
Robert (Robin) Brown, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Faking It:
How We Get Fooled When We Argue About AES (Automated Essay
Scoring), and What We Need to Know so We Won't Get Fooled Again"
Philip Andrew Klobucar, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,
"Predictable Readers: Semantic Technologies, Information Theory and
the Art of the Essay"
Sharla Sava, The Cooper Union, New York, NY, "Outsourcing Composition: How Elite Educational Vendors Teach Writing"
Institutional and Professional

E.29 	 Keeping It Together: Supporting Practices of
Community in a Writing Department
Skybox 210, Second Floor
Chair: Marilee Brooks-Gillies, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Marilee Brooks-Gillies, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Transparency Leads to Togetherness: Cultivating Community
through a Culture of Openness"
Elizabeth Keller, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "What Do We
Know about Mentoring?: Student Perspectives of Mentoring in a Professional Writing Program"
Matthew Novak, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "A Teacher-Outcomes Rubric and Self-Directed Mentorship: Overcoming a One-SizeFits-Most Approach to Mentoring Writing Teachers"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 147

147

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

E.30 	 Authorship, Ecologies, and Infrastructures:
21st Century Applications of Wikis in Rhetoric
and Composition
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor
Chair: Rik Hunter, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY
Speakers: Matthew Vetter, Ohio University, Athens, "Wikipedia as Web
Ecology: Parasitism, Stewardship, and Symbiosis"
Thomas Sura, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Engagement Portfolios: Using Wikis to Foster Inquiry-Based Service Learning"
Rik Hunter, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY, "The Public Work of
Wiki-Writing: Cultural Competencies in Collaborative Knowledge Production"
Language

E.31 	 Questioning English Instruction Abroad and at Home
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Josh Lederman, Wellesley College, MA
Speakers: Libby Anthony, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Conceptualizing
and Representing Students: An Exploration of the Evolution of 'ESL' in
Composition Studies"
Corey McCullough, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Giving Without Taking Away: What Factory Americanization Classes (1915–1920)
Can Tell Us about Workplace ESL Today"
Elisabeth Piedmont-Marton, Southwestern University, Georgetown, TX,
"The Limits of Liberal Literacy Pedagogies in a Global Context: Lessons from Vietnam"
Seokhee Cho, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "A Voice
from the Expanding-Circle English"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.32 	 Digital Pedagogy: Rhetorical Analysis and Assessment
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Vanessa Calkins, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Chelsea Skelley, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Reconsidering (Again) Delivery in a Digital World: Rethinking
Rhetorical Analysis Assignments of PSAs"
Vanessa Calkins, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Assessing Multimedia Projects in First-Year Composition: Rationale as Rubric"
Ann O'Bryan, California State University Northridge, "Video Games in the
Composition Classroom: Overcoming Sexism, Racism, and Violence"

148

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 148

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

E.33 	 Succession, Confession and Conflict in WPA Work
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor
Chair: Angela Petit, Idaho State University, Pocatello
Speakers: Laura Brady, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Planning
for Success(ion) in Writing Program Administration"
Angela Petit, Idaho State University, Pocatello, "No Writing Program Is an
Island: Viewing Composition's Challenges in Relation to Larger Institutional Structures"
Information Technologies

E.34 	 Pedagogy in a New Key: Fanfiction, Comics, and New
Media Composition
Skybox 201, Second Floor
Chair: Patty Wilde, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Speakers: Brittany Kelley, University of Louisville, KY, "Hermione Granger is 'My' Beta: Affective Economies, Heteroglossia, and the Pedagogical Potential of Online Harry Potter Fanfiction"
Christine Alfano, Stanford University, CA, "Teaching New Media Writing
in a New Key: Reevaluating the Pedagogy of Multimodal Writing Instruction"

Open Working Meeting of the International Writing Centers
Association
Room 203, Second Floor
This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Co-Chairs: Kevin Dvorak, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL
Nathalie Singh-Corcoran, West Virginia University, Morgantown

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 149

149

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30–7:30 p.m.
TSIG.01 	2013 CCCC Community Literacy, Service-Learning,
and Public Rhetorics SIG
	
Capri 104, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Cindy Mooty, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Allen Brizee, Loyola University, Baltimore, MD

TSIG.02 	Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy
Special Interest Group
	
Capri 105, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne
Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, Columbus

TSIG.03 	Association of Undergraduate Rhetoric and Writing
Studies Majors
	
Capri 106, First Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Thomas Moriarty, Salisbury University, MD
Tim Peeples, Elon University, NC
Helen Foster, University of Texas, El Paso

TSIG.04 	Council on Basic Writing (CBW)
	
Capri 107, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, NY

TSIG.05 	Disability Studies Special Interest Group (SIG)
	
Capri 108, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver
Margaret Price, Spelman College, Decatur, GA

TSIG.06 	ENGICOMM SIG
	
Capri 109, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Brookline, MA

150

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 150

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	
	

Stephen Bucher, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
Marie Parreti, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg

TSIG.07 	Kenneth Burke Society at CCCC
	
Capri 110, First Floor
	

Chair: Ethan Sproat, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

TSIG.08 	Language, Linguistics, and Writing
	
Capri 111, First Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, NY
Craig Hancock, SUNY Albany
Rei Noguchi, California State University, Northridge

TSIG.09 	Medical Rhetoricians
	
Capri 103, First Floor
	

Chair: Barbara Heifferon, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge

TSIG.10 	National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric
	
Capri 113, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College,
CT
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston

TSIG.11 	Retired and Retiring Faculty in Rhetoric/
Composition/Writing Studies SIG
	
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, Smithfield, VA
Carol Lipson, Syracuse University, NY

TSIG.12 	Rhetoric, Basic Writing, and Student Athletes
	
Capri 115, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Cassie Wright, University of Arizona, Tucson
J. Michael Rifenburg, University of Oklahoma, Norman

TSIG.13 	Rhetoric's Histories: Traditions, Theories, Pedagogies, and Practices
	
Capri 116, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Michal Reznizki, University of California, Davis
Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 151

151

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.14 	Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy, Research and
Literacies
	
Skybox 206, Second Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy, NY
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins

TSIG.15 	The Role of Reading in Composition Studies
	
Skybox 207, Second Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University,
Fort Wayne
Ellen Carillo, University of Connecticut, Mansfield
Mike Bunn, University of Southern California, Los Angeles

TSIG.16 	Women's Network Special Interest Group (SIG)
	
Skybox 208, Second Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin Marathon County
Kristin Bivens, City Colleges of Chicago, Chicago, IL
Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida at St. Petersburg

TSIG.17 	Writing about Writing: FYC as Introduction to Writing
Studies
	
Skybox 209, Second Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Barb Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN

TSIG.18 	 NSSE Special Interest Group
	
Skybox 201, Second Floor
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Robert M. Gonyea, Indiana University, Purdue
Paul Anderson, Elon University, NC
Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Charles Paine, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque

TSIG.19 	 Open-Source/Creative Commons Writing Textbooks
	
Skybox 210, Second Floor
	

Chair: Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City

152

a1-153-4Cs-2013.indd 152

2/11/13 1:42 PM

Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Friday, March 15
REGISTRATION 8:00 a.m.– 5:00 p.m.
Royale Pavilion, Lobby Level
EXHIBITS 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
Royale Pavilion, Lobby Level
Computer Connection/Digital Posters
Top of the Riviera South
TYCA Editorial Board Meeting
7:30 a.m.–8:30 a.m.
Monaco 13, Monaco Tower, Second Floor
Nominating Committee
9:30–11:30 a.m.
Monaco 17, Monaco Tower, Second Floor

154

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 154

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Basic Writing

F.01 	 Basic Writing, Rhetorical Education, and Civic
Engagement
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Emily Walters, University of Dayton, OH
Speakers: Derek Handley, Community College of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh, PA, "Basic Writing and Conversations within the Community"
Bridget Ann Fahey, St. Ambrose University, Davenport, IA, "Basic Writing
and Conversations within the Community"
Jonathan Bush, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, "Connecting
to Community: Place-Based Pedagogy and the Developmental Writing
Classroom"
Information Technologies

F.02 	 Preparing Graduate Students to Be New Media
Composers
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Carrie Leverenz, Texas Christian University, Forth Worth
Speakers: Carrie Leverenz, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Build
It and They Will Come: Graduate Program Structures that Support New
Media Composing"
Joshua Daniel, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "The Play of Modes,
the Emergence of Meaning: Reading New Media Scholarship"
Joanna Schmidt, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Discovering
How to Learn: Complexities of New Media Acquisition"
Joel Overall, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Order and Anarchy:
An Emergent Model for Graduate Instruction in New Media"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.03 	 Facilitating First Generation Graduate Student Success: Extending Critical Compassionate Pedagogy to
Student Support Services
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Corrine Hinton, University of La Verne, CASpeakers: Christine
Kourinian, University of La Verne, CA, "Counseling First Generation
Graduate Students within the Frameworks of Critical Compassionate
Career Counseling, Cultural Competence, and Transition Theory"
Lisa Rodriguez, University of La Verne, CA, "Institutional Considerations
for Supporting First Generation Graduate Students: Bringing Compassionate Pedagogy and Student Impact Data to Bear on Strategic Planning"

156

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 156

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Corrine Hinton, University of La Verne, CA, "Integrating Critical Compassionate Pedagogy into Graduate Consultant Training Programs"
Jose Perez-Gonzalez, University of La Verne, CA, "Critical Compassionate
Tutoring: Approaching First Generation Graduate Student Tutoring Sessions with Cultural, Linguistic, and Rhetorical Awareness"
Language

F.04 	 "Home? Language": De-Privatizing African American
Oral Based Discourse
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Carolyn Handa, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL
Speakers: Bonnie Williams, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Students' 'Write' to Their Own Language: Teaching the African American
Verbal Tradition as a Rhetorically Effective Public Writing Skill"
Jamila Smith, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, "'Injustice Repackaged is Still Injustice': An Exploration of Intersectionality in the Oral
and Written Narratives of Black Mothers and Daughters"
Kedra James, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "'Talk this Way': Orality
Among First-year Writing Students at Historically Black Colleges and
Universities"
Professional and Technical Writing

F.05 	 Complicating Composition: Technical Communication's Investments in Public Discourses, Metaphors,
and Gendered Bodies
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Erin Frost, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Abby Dubisar, Iowa State University, Ames, "Rehabilitating
Tech Comm and Feminist Theory: the Undergraduate Classroom as Audience and Context"
Erin Frost, Illinois State University, Normal, "Complicating Efficiency: An
Apparent Feminist Perspective on Risk Mediation"
Marie Moeller, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, "Racing for a Cure:
Rhetorics of Disease Prevention, Technical Communication Ethics, and
the First-Year Composition Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 157

157

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.06 	 Only Connect: Strategies for Engaging Reluctant,
Under-prepared, and Inattentive Writers
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Kathleen Cassity, Hawaii Pacific University, Honolulu
Speakers: Jeffrey Breitenfeldt, Hawaii Pacific University, Honolulu, "Writing and Attention"
Travis Margoni, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "New Media and the
Reluctant Writer"
Kathleen Cassity, Hawaii Pacific University, Honolulu
Community, Civic & Public

F.07 	 Engagement, Education, and Action in the Information
Age: Science and the New Ideas of Public Work
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Gabriel Cutrufello, Swarthmore College, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Christian Casper, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "'Mutable
Mobility' and Online Public Communication in Science"
Harrison Carpenter, "How Can Blogging Aid the Public Communication
of Science?"
Dickie Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Digital Storytelling
and Community Engagement: Successful and Unsuccessful Collaborations"
Karla Saari Kitalong, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
"Computer Games as Vehicles for Informal Science Learning"
Information Technologies

F.08 	 When Digital Vocabularies Select Exclusionary
Realities: A Panel IRL
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Brenda Helmbrecht, California Polytechnic State University, San
Luis Obispo
Speakers: Stephen Cohen, University of Louisville, KY, "Yelp me! There
Are (Virtually) No Gay People Here: The Dilemma of the Heteronormative Interface"
Morgan Leckie, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Open Source Sluts: The
New (Media) Debate Over Reproductive Control"
Leigh Gruwell, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Where my Girls At? A
Person-Based Approach to Wikipedia"

158

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 158

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Research

F.09 	 From the Public Sphere to the Global Sphere: Extending Composition Across Local and Global Contexts
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Speakers: Steven Fraiberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "English, Israel, and Globalization: Studying the Global Spread of English in
the Israeli High-Tech Industry"
Scott Chiu, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Multilingual Composing: Studying Chinese and English Language Practices In and Out of
the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Brooke Ricker, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Digital
Translanguaging: Serbian Students' Construction of Global and Local
Identities on Facebook"
Respondent: Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Theory

F.10 	 Anti-Immigrant Discourse in the Media: Rhetorical
Political Action for Gender Equality
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Alexandra Hidalgo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
"Transformative Multinational Identities: The Rhetoric of Hybridity in
Female Immigration"
Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID, "Metaphors of Exclusion: 'Anchor Babies' and Reproductive Justice"
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "'The New Racism':
Rhetorical Figures of Speech in Governmental Documents"
Writing Programs

F.11 	 Reidentification: Seeing Students Differently
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer Bay, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: William Carpenter, High Point University, Greensboro, NC,
"Seeing Students as Novice Intellectuals: A Crucible Moment and FirstYear Composition"
Cara Kozma, High Point University, NC, "See Students as Novice Intellectuals: A Crucible Moment and First-Year Composition"
Mandy Macklin, California State University, San Bernardino, "Language
Diversity and the Public Prerogative: A Case Study of an Expanding
FYC Program"
Nigel Medhurst, Fresno City College, CA, "Breathing ROOM for the Basic
Skills Brotha"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 159

159

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Theory

F.12 	 Cosmopolitanism, Genre, and the L2 Writer
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Lisa Bailey, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Zsuzsanna Palmer, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Diversity Meets Theory: In Search of a Theoretical Framework for Translingual and Transcultural Approaches to Writing"
Michael Madson, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Genre as Public
Action: Definition, Description, and Digitization in L2 GBWI"
Creative Writing

F.13 	 Consensus and Community in Creative Writing
Classrooms
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Cynthia Ris, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Ben Ristow, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Analyzing Creative
Workshop as a Productive Contradiction in the Democratic and the Occultic"
Ryan Wepler, Yale University, New Haven, CT, "Variousness, Complexity,
and Difficulty: Aesthetics, Democracy, and the Public Work of Nonfiction Writing"
Sarah Harris, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Building a Community of
Writers: The Creative Writing Workshop Goes Public"
Creative Writing

F.14	 Responses to the Common Core Standards Initiative
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Erin Presley, Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond
Speakers: Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, "Upping the Ante: The Common Core and a Role for Composition in Preparing Secondary Educators to Teach Analytical Reading of
Nonfiction"
Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno, "Composition's Discourse of
Expertise: The NCTE's 2009 Response to the Common Core Standards
Initiative"
Erin Presley, Eastern Kentucky University, Richmond, "Connecting Common Core Standards to the Public Outcomes of First-Year Composition"

160

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 160

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

F.15 	 Becoming "The Writing Person": Negotiating Public
Identity and Programmatic Perils in Writing Program
Administration
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Erica Frisicaro-Pawlowski, Daemen College, Kenmore, NY
Speakers: Andrea Deacon, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "Problem or
Opportunity?: Negotiating a Writing Center Administrator's WAC(ky)
Public Identity"
Margaret Artman, Western Oregon University, Salem, "Surviving a Coup:
Turning Problems into Opportunities"
Erica Frisicaro-Pawlowski, Daemen College, Kenmore, NY, "Writing Outcomes for a New Era: Authority, Inclusion, and the WPA Outcomes
Statement"
Research

F.16 	 Developing Methods for Self-Sponsored Writing
Center Assessment
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Harry Denny, St. John's University, Queens, NY
Speakers: Lori Salem, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, "Protect the
Environment: Using Segmentation Analysis to Investigate Students'
Choice to Use or Not Use the Writing Center"
Harry Denny, St. John's University, Queens, NY, "If You Quantify It, They
Will Reward It: Using Quantitative Analysis to Investigate the Influence
of the Writing Center Use on Student Success"
Linda Bergmann, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Where Have We
Been and Where Should We Go?"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.17 	 Productive Tensions: Ideological Conflict and the Next
Generation of Support for Veterans
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Speakers: Karen Springsteen, SUNY Potsdam, "Veterans' Writing and Civilian Witnessing"
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "The Student-Veteran Effect: Reanimating the Arts of the Contact Zone"
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Shame, War, and
Writing in the Academy"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 161

161

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Theory

F.18 	 The Construction of Latino, Black, and Asian
Masculinities in the Writing Classroom
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Collin Craig, Wake Forest University, Winston Salem, NC
Speakers: Damian Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Latino Collegiate
Masculinities: Assimilation, 'Asimilao' and Subversive Complicity in
the Writing Classroom"
Kermit Campbell, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY, "If Only We Could
Teach Young Brothers How to Write with Swag"
Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno, "The Construction of
Hmong Masculinity in Fresno State University's Writing Classrooms"
History

F.19 	 Private Schools for the Public Good: U.S. Jesuit
Higher Education in the 19th and 20th Centuries
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Steven Mailloux, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA
Speakers: Katherine Adams, Loyola University, New Orleans, "Jesuit
Rhetoric and the Teaching of Professional Discourse: The Public Work
of Composition"
John Brereton, University of Massachusetts, Boston, "Changing Roles of
the Rhetoric Curriculum in Shaping Public Rhetors in U.S. Jesuit Colleges"
Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, Stratford, CT, "Changing Roles of the
Rhetoric Curriculum in Shaping Public Rhetors in U.S. Jesuit Colleges"
Respondent: Ann Green, St. Joseph's University, Havertown, PA
Theory

F.20 	 When the Time is Right: Women, Rhetoric, Publics,
and Policies
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Joyce Irene Middleton, Stony Brook University, New York, NY
Speakers: Cheryl Glenn, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"Sister Rhetors: Making and Unmaking Public Policy"
Shirley Logan, University of Maryland, College Park, "'Righteous Discontent': Women's Acceptance Speeches as Public Political Statements"
Krista Ratcliffe, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, "Women Rhetors
Respond: The War On/Over Women's Bodies in the 2012 U.S. Election
Cycle"
Joyce Irene Middleton, Stony Brook University, New York, NY, "Feminist
Rhetoric as Visual Rhetoric: Uses of Rhetorical Silence and Listening in
Global Filmmaking"

162

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 162

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.21 	 Affect and Ethics and Their Effect on Teaching Writing
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Erin Adamson, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Speakers: Cameron Mozafari, University of Maryland, College Park, "Public Displays of Affect: Theming a First-Year Writing Class on Feelings,
Public Memory, and Memorials"
Craig Hulst, Grand Valley State University, Wyoming, MI, "Making the
Implicit Explicit: Understanding How Our Personal Ethics Influences
Our Teaching"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

F.22 	 Writing Bridges: Public Conversations about
Composition across High School and Post-Secondary
Contexts
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Heather Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada
Speakers: Bob Broad, Illinois State University, Normal, "Listen to and
Learn from Colleagues' Rhetorical Values to Build Professional Community"
Roger Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "Conversations
about Writing and College Readiness: Ready for What?"
David Slomp, University of Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, "Making Policy
Impacts Public: How Contextual Factors Shape Writing Instruction in
Secondary and Post-Secondary contexts"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.23 	 Web-based Literacies
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Megan Bardolph, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Casey Soto, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, "The Online
Reading and Writing Practices of Four First-Year College Students"
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, "Responding to Student Writing: The Impact of Combinations of Multimodal Technologies in a Web-Based Environment"
Megan Bardolph, University of Louisville, KY, "Crafting Literate Lives:
Multiliteracies and Transfer of Learning in Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 163

163

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

F.24 	 Public Scrutiny, Public Response: Rhetorically
Arm(or)ing Against the War on Women
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Rebecca Hayes, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Katie Manthey, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "'When
the Body You See Is Not Your Own': Rhetoricizing the Fat Female Body
as a Space of Agency"
Rebecca Hayes, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "'Woman . . . If
You Don't Want to Be Harassed, Stay in the Kitchen': Street Harassment
and Online Rhetorical Resistance"
Gina Kruschek, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Fashioning Responses: H&M and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo"
Elizabeth Birmingham, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Fangirls
Hollaback: Identity as Agency in Online Spaces"
Basic Writing

F.25 	 Occupying the Language of Remediation: from CSUSB
to Deborah Brandt to The Hunger Games
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor
Chair: Esther Gutierrez, California State University, San Bernardino
Speakers: Robert Diaz, California State University, San Bernardino
Brisa Galindo, California State University, San Bernardino
Gina Hanson, California State University, San Bernardino
DeShonna Wallace, California State University, San Bernardino
Arturo Tejada, Jr., California State University, San Bernardino
Sara Scotten, California State University, San Bernardino
Carol Haviland, California State University, San Bernardino
Sonia Castaneda, California State University, San Bernardino
Francesca Astiazaran, California State University, San Bernardino
Beatrice Ortega, California State University, San Bernardino
Community, Civic & Public

F.26 	 Rhetorical Analyses of Cultural Phenomena
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Thomas Henry, Utah Valley University, Orem
Speakers: Daniel Cleary, Lorain County Community College, Lakewood,
OH, "Burkean and Davidsonian Identification in the Rhetoric of Alcoholics Anonymous"
Tana Schiewer, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Food For Thought: One Researcher's Experience Applying Theory for the Public Good"

164

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 164

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Karen McDonnell, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "The
Colbert Report: Parody, Politics, and Today's Public Rhetor"
Renea Frey, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Taking (It) to the Streets: Assemblage and Appropriation in Nineteenth Century Temperance Rhetoric and Occupy Wall Street"
Academic Writing

F.27 	 Race and Gender: Lessons in Constructing Identity
and Responsibility
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University, NJ
Speakers: Katja Thieme, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, "Indigenization and Student Writing"
Robert Terry, University of Louisville, KY, "Public Leadership and Academic Police Writing"
Shurli Makmillen, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, "Indigenization and Student Writing"
Julie Swedin, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "Issues of Identity
and Responsibility: How Do We Create Enlightened Thinkers Who Will
Bring about Social Change?"
Basic Writing

F.28 	 The Work of Scholarship: Hermeneutics in Public and
Institutional Arguments on Basic Writing
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Ashley Hannah, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Toledo, OH, "The
Work of Philosophical Argument in an Age of Mechanical Assessment"
William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA, "Agency through Assessment: Developing a Basic Writing Program Strength Quotient"
Abby Nance, Gardner-Webb University, Mooresboro, NC, "A Tale of Two
Classrooms: Practicing Trauma-Sensitive Placement"
Karen Uehling, Boise State University, ID, "Assessment, Placement, and
Access: Framing Arguments from Local and National Histories"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 165

165

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.29 	 The Tyranny of Argument: Rethinking the Work of
Composition
Grande Ballroom A, First Floor

Co-Chairs: Gian Pagnucci, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Indiana,
PA
Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington
Speakers: Claude Hurlbert, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Indiana,
PA, "The End of Cultural Supremacy in Composition"
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "The Privileging of Traditional Arguments in Academic Gatekeeper Writing: Ethnic
and Regional Academic Storytelling Writers at Risk"
Todd DeStigter, University of Illinois, Chicago, "Argumentative Writing
and the Matrices of Anxiety"
Kami Day, Retired, Norman, OK, "Everything's Not an Argument"
Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "The Tyranny of Argument: Rethinking the Work of Composition"
David Schaafsma, University of Illinois, Chicago, "The Tyranny of Argument: Rethinking the Work of Composition"
Gian Pagnucci, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "The Tyranny of Argument: Rethinking the Work of Composition"
Respondent: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Writing Programs

F.30 	 Going Public: Making Integrated Writing Instruction
Visible Across Disciplines, Across the Institution
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: W. Brock MacDonald, Woodsworth College, University of Toronto,
Ontario, Canada
Speakers: Leora Freedman, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, "Supporting Multilingual Writers through Multiple Literacies"
Andrea Williams, University of Toronto, Toronto, On, "Teaching Writing
in the Disciplines: Towards Equitable and Sustainable Collaborations"
Rita Vine, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, "Extending Our Reach:
Librarians as Teachers and Knowledge Brokers"
W. Brock MacDonald, Woodsworth College, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, "The Writing Center as Change Agent in a Time of Austerity"

166

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 166

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Academic Writing

F.31 	 Reaching Out to a Discipline and Profession: Writing
and Reading in Nursing Studies
Skybox 211, Second Floor
Chair: Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Sarah Primeau, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor
Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor
Community, Civic & Public

F.33 	 Serving Those Who Serve
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Kyle Stedman, University of South Florida, Tampa
Speakers: Melissa Faulkner, Cedarville University, Springboro, OH,
"Wingman, Leader, Warrior, Writer: A Service Learning Project between
a Manual Writing Course and the Air National Guard"
Holly Baumgartner, Lourdes University, Toledo, OH, "Band of Cousins:
The Importance of a Veterans Writing Workshop"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

F.34 	 Sustainability and Composition
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Matthew Newcomb, SUNY New Paltz
Speakers: Matthew Newcomb, SUNY New Paltz, "Sustainability and
Style"
Nicole Hitner, SUNY New Paltz, "Re-applying the Ecology Metaphor:
Ecocomposition as Sustainable Pedagogy"
Christopher Lawrence, SUNY New Paltz, "The First-Year Composition
Course as Academic Outreach: Ecocomposition Pedagogy as Sustainable Activism"

Open Working Meeting of the ENGICOMM SIG
Room 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Co-Chairs: Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Stephen Bucher, University of Southern California, Los Angeles

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 167

167

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Basic Writing

G.01 	 The Accelerated Learning Program: Deepening the
Teaching of Writing to Basic Writers
Skybox 202, Second Floor

Chair: Linda De La Ysla, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Christine W. Heilman, Georgia Gwinnett College, Lilburn, "ALP
at GGC"
Linda De La Ysla, Community College of Baltimore County, MD, "ALP
at CCBC"
Creative Writing

G.02 	 Creative Nonfiction and the Public Sphere
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: Ginger Knowlton, University of Colorado-Boulder, "We Are the
Spaces that We Breathe: Creative Nonfiction and Ecopoetics"
Eric Burger, University of Colorado-Boulder, "But What Does It Mean?:
Student Engagement with the Lyric Essay"
Tobin Von Der Nuell, University of Colorado-Boulder, "I've Got Something to Say: Creative Nonfiction and the Teaching of Voice"
John-Michael Rivera, University of Colorado-Boulder, "The Nonfiction of
the Public University"
Research

G.03 	 Disciplinary Data on Display: Visualizing Keywords in
CompPile, Dissertations, and the Writing Studies Tree
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Jill Belli, The Graduate Center, CUNY, NY
Speakers: Benjamin Miller, CUNY Graduate Center, NY, "Knowledge
Makers in the Making: A Distant Reading of Dissertations"
Amanda Licastro, CUNY Graduate Center, NY, "Tag, You're It: Visualizing
the Writing Studies Tree Folksonomy"
Oriana Gatta, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Frame by Frame: A Keyword Exploration of Composition Studies' Inter/Disciplinarity"

170

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 170

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

G.04 	 Writing Center Training, Performative Silence, and
Informational Visualization
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Kendra Mitchell, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Writing
Centers, Ethnicity, and Performative Silences: An Ethnography of Selective Aphasia"
Daniel Lawson, Central College, Pella, IA, "Tutors, Ideology, and Error"
Deborah Bertsch, Columbus State Community College, OH, "Preparing
Student Writers for a Discourse of Construction: Expanding the Scope
of Writing Center Training"
Information Technologies

G.05 	 Mapping Our Discursive Homes across Disciplinary,
National, and Digital Borders
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Sherrie Gradin, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Lana Oweidat, Ohio University, Athens, "Mapping our Discursive Homes across National Boundaries"
Rachael Montin, Ohio University, Athens, "Mapping our Discursive Homes
across Digital Borders"
Lydia McDermott, Ohio University, Athens, "Mapping our Discursive
Homes across Disciplinary Borders"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.06 	 Multimodal Pedagogies in Digital Media Environments:
Websites, LMSs, and Webcasts
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Snezana Dzakovic, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Snezana Dzakovic, Iowa State University, Ames, "'Almost Musical': Students' Perceptions of Complex Data Displays in a TEDTalks
Webcast"
Jackie Hoermann, Iowa State University, Ames, "Failed Online Publics:
Perceptions of Traditional and Socially-Networked LMSs in the Foundational Composition Course"
Sara Parks, Iowa State University, Ames, "Process Pedagogy in Business
Communication: What Happens Before Their Websites Go Live?"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 171

171

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

G.07 	 The Invisible Made Visible: Web 2.0 and
Peer-Conferencing in Writing Courses
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Erin Zimmerman, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Kathy Rose, Iowa State University, Des Moines, "The Invisible
Made Visible: Web 2.0 and Peer-Conferencing in Writing Courses"
Eric York, Iowa State University, Ames, "The Invisible Made Visible: Web
2.0 and Peer-Conferencing in Writing Courses"
Erin Zimmerman, Iowa State University, Ames, "Things that are Invisible
are Still Important: Web 2.0 and Peer-Conferencing in Writing Courses"
Sue Pagnac, Iowa State University, Ames, "The Invisible Made Visible:
Web 2.0 and Peer-Conferencing in Writing Courses"
Respondent: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Information Technologies

G.08 	 When the Distance Is Not Distant: Modeling Best
Practices and Maximizing Public Interaction in the
Online Course
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Heidi Harris, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, OR
Speakers: Jessie Borgman, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo,
"Alone and Online: Designing Content and Using PDCs as an Adjunct
Instructor of First-Year Writing"
Katherine Ericsson, Washington State University, Pullman, "Using Technologies Outside the CMS to Facilitate Successful Online Group Projects"
Heidi Harris, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, "Bridging the Gaps:
Modeling Best Practices and Mentoring Distant Online Instructors"
Dani Weber, University of Pittsburgh at Bradford, "Minimalist Design:
How Less Is More in Online Instruction"
Language

G.09 	 Beyond "English Only": Language Ideologies and
Identities across University Writing Contexts
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Dorothy Worden, Penn State University, University Park
Speakers: Yi Zhang, Penn State University, University Park, "Learning to
'Be' a Writing Teacher: Legitimate Peripheral Participation for L2 M.A.
TESL Students"

172

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 172

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Dorothy Worden, Penn State University, University Park, "Global and Local Language Ideologies in a U.S. Law School: Legal Literacy in a Second Language"
Shakil Rabbi, Penn State University, University Park, "Ideologies of ESL
and First Language Composition Pedagogies: Constructing Student
Identities"
History

G.10 	 Alternative Histories: Composition and Rhetoric in
Secondary Schools and Normal Colleges, 1890–1956
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Henrietta Rix Wood, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Speakers: Edward Comstock, American University, Washington, DC, "Towards a Genealogy of Composition: Student Discipline and Development at Harvard in the Late Nineteenth Century"
Henrietta Rix Wood, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "'CompositionRhetoric' at Central High School in Kansas City, 1895–1925"
Elaine Hays, College of the Holy Cross, Princeton, MA, "'Be Patient,
But Don't Wait!': Activist Student Journalism at The 'Colored Normal
School' of Elizabeth City, North Carolina, 1927–1956"
Community, Civic & Public

G.11 	 A Land without a People: How Composition's
Naturalistic Metaphors Leave the Body Behind
Capri 108, First Floor
Chair: Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington
Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
Julie Amick, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Information Technologies

G.12 	 Institutionalizing Innovation: Collaboration, Class
Size, and Conflict
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Jacqueline Wheeler, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Andrea Alden, Arizona State University, Tempe, "21s Century
Composition: Digital Writing and Authentic Practice"
Jeff Holmes, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Collaborative Instruction
and Reflective Praxis in Online FYC"
Jacqueline Wheeler, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Interrogating"
Jeanne Olson, Arizona State University, Tempe, "'Who is teaching this
class?' Student Perceptions on Shifting Teaching Spaces"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 173

173

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

G.13 	 Rhetorics of Religion, Rhetorics of Identity: Enacting
Belief in the Writing Center
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Mitch Nakaue, The University of Iowa, Ames
Speakers: Mitch Nakaue, The University of Iowa, Ames, "Written on the
Face of Things: Radical Alterity and the Theological Imperative to Love"
Lisa Zimmerelli, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore, "Service-Learning in a Jesuit Writing Center: Enacting a Logic of Compassion and
Identity"
Andrea Rosso Efthymiou, Yeshiva University, New York, NY, "Women,
Religion, and Literacy: An Ethnographic Study of Peer-Tutors in an AllWomen's Jewish Writing Center"
Respondent: John Duffy, Granger, IN
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.14 	 Ethos and the Public and Private Work of Teaching
Composition in the 21st Century
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Keith Gilyard, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Speakers: Christina Santana, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Salesmen
Culture and the Ethics of Teaching Composition"
Ersula Ore, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Teacherly Ethos"
Damon Cagnolatti, Cerritos College, Norwalk, CA, "Livin' Proof to Kick
the Truth: Using a Hip Hop Ethos to Build Critical Literacies in a Basic
Writing Course"
David Green, Hampton University, VA, "Discussions of Democratic Education, African American Ethos, and Basic Writing"
Theory

G.15 	 Ecological Productions: Space, Publics, Texts,
Identities
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Jerry Petersen, Marygrove College, Oak Park, MI
Speakers: John Whicker, Ohio University, Athens, "Writing's Complex
Productions: Toward an Ecological Model"
Nicole Papaioannou, St. John's University, Brooklyn, NY, "The Ecology of
Growth Spaces: First-Year Writing Students' Perceptions of Public and
Private Writing Environments"
Chris Leary, St. John's University, Brooklyn, NY, "How Occupy Lost its
Body"
Respondent: Sidney Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville

174

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 174

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

G.16 	 Leveraging the "Where" of Writing: Forging,
Showcasing, and Complicating Community
Connections
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Jim Henry, University of Hawaii, Honolulu
Speakers: Jim Henry, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, "Public-izing Community Connections: Curating Place-based Writing on a WAC Program's
Web Site"
Derek Owens, St. John's University, Queens, NY, "Writing Program as
Sanctuary: Cultivating Student Testimonies as an Ecocultural Imperative"
Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "'Boundary Encounters' and the Work of WAC across Communities"
Theory

G.17 	 Places, Objects, and Images
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Katherine Daily, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Marni Presnall, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Evocative
Object: School Desk"
Cydney Alexis, University of Denver, CO, "Moving Writing, Shifting Habitats: Affective, Material, and Place-Based Inquiries into Writing Practice"
Kuhio Walters, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, "Disturbing Student Pleasure: Catastrophe, Public Vision, and the Photography Problem"
Theory

G.18 	 The Rhetoric of Settler Colonialism
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Scott Richard Lyons, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Christie Toth, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Tribal College Composition and the Exigency of Settler Colonialism"
Scott Richard Lyons, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Beyond Cultural
Rhetoric: Composition and Settler Colonialism"
Dana Nichols, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Reading Settler Colonialism: The Rhetoric of 'Poverty Porn'"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 175

175

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

G.19 	 Literacy Instruction Meets Intercollegiate Sports
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Martha Townsend, University of Missouri, Columbia
Speakers: Anne Cruzan, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "A FAR's
Perspective: A Faculty Athletics Representative Reflects on Her First
Year on the Job"
Amy Perko, Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, Fayetteville,
NC, "A Long-Time Professional Observer's Perspective: The View from
Both Inside and Out"
Martha Townsend, University of Missouri, Columbia, "A WAC/WID Perspective: An Outsider-to-Athletics Ponders the C's Paucity of Attention
to Student-Athletes"
Institutional and Professional

G.20 	 Student Assessment, Program Assessment, and the
Challenges
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Natalia Kovalyova, University of North Texas. Dallas
Speakers: Nicholas Behm, Elmhurst College, Bolingbrook, IL, "Policy Reports and Writing Assessment: Unpacking the Color-blind Racism that
Permeates Policy Reports Authored by the Educational Testing Service
and the National Assessment of Educational Progress"
Michael Zerbe, York College of Pennsylvania, "Assessment of an Undergraduate Professional Writing Major"
Natalia Kovalyova, University of North Texas, Dallas, "Staking Our Claim:
The Challenges of High-Stakes Assessment at a New University"
Kate Warrington, University of North Texas, Dallas, "Staking Our Claim:
The Challenges of High-Stakes Assessment at a New University"
Information Technologies

G.21 	 We Are Borg: Composing Processes and Identities
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Sheri Rysdam, Utah Valley University, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Angela Laflen, Marist College, Poughkeepsie, NY, "Charting the
New World between Whiteboards and Slides: Composing Online with
Prezi"
Lauren Regan, Marist College, Poughkeepsie, NY, "Charting the New
World between Whiteboards and Slides: Composing Online with Prezi"
Anna Knutson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Negotiating
Metacognition in a Digital Landscape: Multimodal Reflection in the 21st
Century Classroom"
Sara Hillin, Lamar University, Beaumont, TX, "Exploring Students' Cyborgian Abilities in a Multimedia Writing Course"

176

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 176

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

History

G.22 	 Historical Roots of Contemporary Language Practices
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Tim Green, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Tim Green, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Language Ideology in Renaissance Rhetoric: How Religious Arguments Shaped Language Attitudes in Post-Reformation England"
Mary Payne, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Nineteenth-Century
Perceptions of Correctness and Their Implications for the Twenty-First
Century"
Xinqiang Li, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Realism in Modern
China: History and Discussions"
Community, Civic & Public

G.23 	 Public Education Alternatives: K-12 and Community
Education
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Joshua Schriftman, University of Miami, FL
Speakers: Courtney Adams Wooten, University of North Carolina Greensboro, "Homeschooling Cooperatives Complicate Critical Pedagogy and
Composition's Movement into the Public"
Joseph Bartolotta, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Laboring Literacy: How a Literacy Program in One Labor Union Made Writing Public
and Turned Workers into Writers and Speakers"
Jennifer Marciniak, University of Louisville, KY, "Literacy on the Backside: The Complex Relationship between Corporate Sponsorship and
Migrant Worker Education at Churchill Downs"
Melissa Bender, University of California, Davis, "The Rhetoric of Economics, the Privatization of Education, and the Public Work of Composition"
Basic Writing

G.24 	 What Kind of Citizens Are We Returning to China?
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Marylou Gramm, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Janine Carlock, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Developing an
Individual Belief System"
Marylou Gramm, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Chinese Students Coming
Out"
Renee Prymus, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Inquiry as Intellectual Autonomy"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 177

177

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.25 	 When the Classroom is Flipped: New Models of
Teaching Writing
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Chris Friend, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Christina Grimsley, Texas Woman's University, Denton, "Flipping the Classroom: Investigating its Impact in First-Year Composition"
Chris Friend, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Implications of Delivery Mode for an Outcomes-Based FYC Curriculum"
Susan Crisafulli, Franklin College, IN, "The Inverted Writing Classroom:
'The Future of Education'"
Institutional and Professional

G.26 	 First-year Composition, Rhetoric, and the Public
University
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Crystal Colombini, The University of Texas at San Antonio
Speakers: Danika Brown, University of Texas, Pan American, "High-Impact Educational Practices as Rhetorical Pedagogy"
Catherine Chaput, University of Nevada Reno, "Local Students in a Global
University: An Institutional Perspective"
Crystal Colombini, The University of Texas at San Antonio, "Divided We
Struggle: Economics, Ethics, and the 'Stand-Alone'"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.27 	 Understanding Transfer in the First-Year Writing
Classroom
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Caitlin Martin, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Ronda Leathers Dively, Southern Illinois University Carbondale,
"Writing About Creating: Charting Pathways for Knowledge Transfer in
a Thematic FYC Course"
Caitlin Martin, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Teaching for Transfer:
Self-Assessment, Learning Outcomes, and Reflection as Necessary
Components of Student Learning in FYC"
Elizabeth Hollis, Haralson County High School, Tallapoosa, GA, "In a
New-er Light: Viewing Transfer in the Age of Common Core and College and Career Readiness"

178

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 178

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

G.28 	 Writing in the Sciences, Scientific Thought, and
Mentoring Writers
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: David Coad, San Jose State University, CA
Speakers: Christopher Strelluf, University of Missouri, Kansas City, "Engineering Better Writing: Findings from a Cross-Disciplinary Collaboration on Freshman Composition"
Natalie Stillman-Webb, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "'Invisible'
Writing Instruction: Mentoring of Graduate Student Writers in the Sciences"
Lynn Chrenka, Ferris State University, Big Rapids, MI, "A Very Public
Practice: When Pharmacy Students Write"
Research

G.29 	 Public Health Claims, Writing in Entomology, and
The Legacy of The First Public Normal School
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Andrea Olinger, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Anna Hensley, Syracuse University, NY, "Indexing Massive
Bodies in the 'Obesity Crisis': Tracing the Circulation of Public Health
Information"
Andrea Olinger, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Styling Arthropods: A Sociocultural Account of Writing Styles in Entomology"
Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Meanwhile at Bridgewater:
The Real and Possible Legacy of the First Public Normal School"
Professional and Technical Writing

G.30 	 Exploring Public Plain Language Use in Government,
Ethics, and Countercultures
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Karen Nulton, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Derek Ross, Auburn University, AL, "Subverting Plain Language: The Technical Communication of Ecotage"
Russell Willerton, Boise State University, ID, "Plain Language at the Intersection of Writer's Ethics and Readers' Rights"
Kathleen Kerr, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Pragmatics and Plain Writing
Laws"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 179

179

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.31 	 Multi-Modal Blues
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Jo-Ann Hamilton, City College of New York, NY
Speakers: Jo-Ann Hamilton, City College of New York, NY
Charlene Cambridge, City College of New York, NY
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

G.32 	 Writing on Different Soil: Adaptations of Writing and
Composition Studies at Three International Sites
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Elizabeth Narvaez-Cardona, University of California, Santa
Barbara, "Writing Practices in Colombian Higher Education: The Challenges for Composition Curricula"
Natalia Avila, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Changing Institutional Frames: Building a Culture of Writing at Pontifical Catholic University of Chile"
James Austin, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Revising Literac(ies)
Abroad: Disciplinary Adaptability at the American University in Cairo"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.33 	 Interviewing, Free Speech, and Improvisation: Making
Sense Live, In Public
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: John Peterson, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA
Speakers: Mark Baker, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Emerging
Political Identities in the Classroom"
Robin King, University of California, Santa Cruz , "Shared and Diverse
Experiences, Face-to-Face"
Gabrielle Moyer, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA, "Publicly Unpredictable: Student Interviews"
John Peterson, Stanford University, Palo Alto,CA, "Free Speech? The Danger and Beauty of Speaking Off the Cuff"

180

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 180

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.34 	 Toward a Sustainable Curriculum: Teaching FYC at the
Community College Level with a Focus on Food Politics, Consumption, and the Environment to Promote
Critical Literacy
Royal Pavilion 5, First Floor

Chair: Shannon Mondor, College of the Redwoods, Eureka, CA
Speakers: Shannon Mondor, College of the Redwoods, Eureka, CA, "Supermarket Pastoral, Food Porn, and the Nutritional Industrial Complex:
Nurturing Critical Literacy by Exploring the Rhetoric of Food Politics
and Food Security"
Lesley Manousos, College of the Redwoods, Eureka, CA, "The Ordinary
Made Extraordinary: Encouraging Semiotic Analysis of Our Fast Food
Culture to Promote Critical Literacy"
Robyn Roberson, College of the Redwoods, Eureka, CA, "Trickster Dialectic in Food Knowledge–What Does Environment Have to Do with
Food?"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.35 	 Participating in Shaping Meaning: Student Encounters
with Scholarly Texts in Writing-about-Writing Courses
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA
Speakers: Marianna Hendricks, University of Texas at El Paso, "Re-Mediating Workplace Writing with Scholarly Readings"
Angie Ford, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Student Responses to
Being Trusted with Primary Texts"
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Rhetoric, Not Modes:
The Inadequacy of 'Critical' Reading for Writing-about-Writing"
Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA, "Reading Difficult
Texts: Students' Use of Sources in WAW Courses"

Open Working Meeting of the Community Literacy,
Service-Learning, and Public Rhetorics SIG
Room 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Co-Chairs: Cindy Mooty, Wayne State University, Macomb, MI
Allen Brizee, Loyola University, Baltimore, MD

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 181

181

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Speakers:
Andrea Abernathy Lunsford
Stanford University, CA, "What's In a Name: The Development of Basic Writing"
George Otte
CUNY School of Professional Studies, NY, "Anything But Basic"
Mary Soliday
San Francisco State University, CA, "Where We Were Is Where We Could Be"
Respondent: Kelly Ritter, University of North Carolina at Greensboro

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 183

183

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

H.02 	 Narrating, Building, and Framing a Public Space for
Literacies—Across Disciplines, Colleges, Public
Schools, and Local Communities
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: David Marquard, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Speakers: Teagan Decker, The University of North Carolina, Pembroke,
"Literacy and Learning by Way of Listening to the Students"
Tank Steiner, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke, "Literacy and
Student Leadership"
David Marquard, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke, "Rhetorical Listening across Disciplines and Communities: Putting to Practice
the Theoretical Underpinnings within New Literacy Studies"
Scott Hicks, The University of North Carolina, Pembroke, "Literacy: Bringing the Community Together"
Community, Civic & Public

H.03 	 Composing the Public (and its Problems): John Dewey
and the Public Work of Rhetoric and Composition
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Paul Lynch, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "How to
Assemble a Public, Instructions and Devices Included"
Daniel Richards, University of South Florida, Tampa, "'I Have a Proposition for You': The Problems of Composing Heterogeneous Assemblies"
Paul Lynch, St. Louis University, MO, "Composition as Democratic Experience"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.04 	 Not Either/Or: Civic Rhetoric, Community Engagement,
and the Public Work of Composition
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: John Raucci, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "John
Quincy Adams's Civic Rhetoric: A Reconsideration of Why Publics Matter in Composition"
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "The Space Between: Public Student Composers in Class/Community Settings"
Leonora Smith, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Revising the
Work of Childhood: A First-Year Composition/ Elementary Art Collaboration"

184

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 184

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

H.05 	 Writing and The Politics of Acceleration
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Beverly Neiderman, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Margaret Shaw, Kent State University, OH, "What Are We Sacrificing in the Move to the Three-Year Degree?"
Uma Krishnan, Kent State University, OH, "Preparing 'Dual Citizens' for
Tomorrow"
Halle Neiderman, Kent State University, OH, "Politicking Composition"
Beverly Neiderman, Kent State University, OH, "Acceleration Politics and
the Role of the Writing Program Administrator"
Information Technologies

H.06 	 Public Composition in Privatized Digital Spaces
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Kaitlin Marks-Dubbs, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Kaitlin Marks-Dubbs, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Spreadability and Censorship: Digital Community Standards
against Spreading Self-Harm"
Megan Condis, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "The Politics
of Avatars: Disability in Virtual Worlds"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.07 	 Composer Agency and Multimodal Composition
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Speakers: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston, "Preparing for
the (Counter) Public: Commonplace Books, Microblogs, and the 2012
Presidential Election"
Timothy Oleksiak, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
"This Text is Not For You: Rhetorical Eavesdropping and Multimodal
Composition"
Clayton Benjamin, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Rethinking
Composition as Human-Text Interaction"
Respondent: Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 185

185

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Basic Writing

H.08 	 Digital Media and Basic Writing: Enhancing the Work
of Composition
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne
Speakers: Catherine Braun, The Ohio State University at Marion, "Encouraging Inquiry/Challenging Formalism: Remix Assignments in a Basic
Writing Class"
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana-Purdue Fort Wayne, "A Narrative Can
Be Explored in More Ways than One: Digital Media and the Transition
From Basic to First-Year Writing"
Nancy F. Pine, Columbus State Community College, OH, "But I'm Just
Not Good With Technology: From Resistance to Empowerment in Basic
Writing Courses"
Theory

H.09 	 New Media Ecologies: Technology, Nature, Aesthetics,
Complexity
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Sean Morey, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Sidney Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville, "New Media
(Complex) Ecology and The New Media Ecological Complex"
Steven Holmes, Clemson University, SC, "Writing Eco-relational Aesthetics"
Sean Morey, Clemson University, SC, "Writing Beyond Nature, Nature Beyond Writing"
John Tinnell, University of Florida, Tallahassee, "Writing Beyond Augmentation: Ecological Models of Human-Technology Relations"
Writing Programs

H.10 	 Transition and Transfer: Tracing Student Movement
through Writing Majors and Across Disciplines
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Vanessa Alander, Plymouth State University, Madison, NH
Speakers: Donna Scheidt, High Point University, NC, "(Legal) Writing as a
Liberal Art in the Undergraduate Writing Major"
Laurie A. Pinkert, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN, "Across the Disciplines
and Within: Results of a Study of Graduate Writing Courses"
T J Geiger, Syracuse University, NY, "The Life-Course of Writing Majors:
Learning Beyond a Single Course"
Susan Hahn, DePauw University, Carpinteria, CA, "Transfer Studies: From
First-Year Composition to Senior Capstone"

186

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 186

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

H.11 	 Making Our Work Public: Creating a New English Major
Skybox 212, Second Floor
Chair: Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg
Speakers: Jill McCracken, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg
Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg
Information Technologies

H.12 	 Haunted Places: Composing Possibilities for
Democratic Design
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Jessica Nastal, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Rajendra Panthee, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Inviting
Citizen Designers to Design Interface for the Democratization of Online
Environments"
Larry Beason, University of South Alabama, Mobile, "Ghosts of Places in
Students' Public Writing"
Erich Werner, Front Range Community College, Fort Collins, CO, "From
Rant to Ruin: Composing for the Internet's Many and Complex Speeds"
Leigh Graziano, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "The Ghost in the
Machine: The Public and Private in Vernacular Memorials"
Institutional and Professional

H.13 	 Privatization and Writing Instruction: Venture
Philanthropy, for-Profits, and Contingent
Self-Advocacy
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Nicole McFarlane, Fayetteville State University, NC
Speakers: Glenn Moomau, American University, Washington, DC, "The
Public Work of Self-Advocacy: How Writing Faculty Can Change Contingent-Faculty Working Conditions"
Lacey Wootton, American University, Washington, DC, "The Public Work
of Self-Advocacy: How Writing Faculty Can Change Contingent-Faculty Working Conditions"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 187

187

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

H.14 	 The Public Works of Program Administration:
Accreditation and Assessment
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Peggy O'Neill, Loyola University Baltimore , MD
Speakers: Peggy O'Neill, Loyola University Baltimore , MD, "The Rhetoric and Reality of Writing Assessment"
Cindy Moore, Loyola University Baltimore , MD, "Using Outcomes-based
Accreditation to Improve Faculty Evaluation"
Angela Crow, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "The Giant
Data-Pool: Accreditation and Assessment Futures in the Land of Online
Learning Resources"
Writing Programs

H.15 	 Making the Grade: Exploring and Explaining "Failure"
in the Composition Classroom and Beyond
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM
Speakers: Laurie Churchill, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces,
NM, "Who's Failing Whom? Programmatic Obstacles to Student Success and Voices from the 'Failed'"
Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM, "Who's
Failing Whom? Programmatic Obstacles to Student Success and Voices
from the 'Failed'"
Elizabeth Hodges, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA,
"Beneath the Behaviors: Explaining Failure Through Survey and Interview"
Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University, Boise, ID, "Supporting Student
Success: Retention, Engagement, and Students Who Repeat First-Year
Writing Courses"
Basic Writing

H.16 	 Toward Consensus: Basic Writing Pedagogy in
Community Colleges, from Faculty Development
to Active Learning
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Jamey Gallagher, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Jamey Gallagher, Community College of Baltimore County,
MD, "Faculty Development as Consensus Building"
Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, MD, "Thinking
Our Way Toward a Pedagogy for Basic Writing"

188

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 188

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Michelle Zollars, Patrick Henry Community College, Martinsville, VA,
"Transforming Colleges and Classrooms through Active Cooperative
Learning"
Theory

H.17 	 Socially Built Environment Surrounding Disability
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Valerie P. Rendel, Lewis University, Romeoville, IL
Speakers: Rebecca Miner, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
"Oppressive Collective Illness Narratives in Online Socially Built Environments"
Rochelle Gregory, North Central Texas College, Providence Village, TX,
"'Too Autistic?' or 'Not Autistic Enough?': Challenging Identifications
of Autistic Students as 'Living Computers'"
Basic Writing

H.18 	 Politics, Basic Writing, and the CSU System
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: KC Culver, University of Miami, FL
Speakers: Mathew Gomes, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Foreign Investments: International Student Recruitment and the Modern
Utility of Remediation in the CSU System"
Dan Melzer, California State University, Sacramento, "Ending Remediation: A Critical Discourse Analysis"
Brenda Helmbrecht, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis
Obispo, "Still on the Front Lines: The Battle to Protect Students from a
'Remedial' Debate"
Professional and Technical Writing

H.19 	 Risk, Rhetoric, and Military Legacies in the Town Next
Door
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Julie Staggers, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Speakers: Sam Dragga, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Dangerous
Neighbors: The Public Impact of Erasive Rhetoric"
Gwendolyn Gong, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, "Dangerous
Neighbors: The Public Impact of Erasive Rhetoric"
Julie Staggers, University of Nevada Las Vegas, "Destined to Fail: MilitaryIndustrial Roots of Hanford's Safety Culture"
Michele Simmons, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Communicating
with the Public in the City Behind the Fence"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 189

189

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

H.20 	 (Re)connecting Reading and Writing:
A Cross-Generational Perspective
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Patricia Donahue, Lafayette College, Easton, PA
Speakers: Mariolina Salvatori, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Reading the
80s"
Patricia Donahue, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, "Re-reading Rhetorical
Reading"
Ellen Carillo, University of Connecticut, Waterbury, "Making Reading Visible in Classrooms Across the Disciplines"
Mike Bunn, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "Reading Like
a Writer in the Composition Classroom"
Language

H.21 	 Advising Resident Multilingual Writers: Challenges,
Implications, and New Directions for Research
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Speakers: Robin Murie, University of Minnesota, Duluth, "Bringing the
Advisor onto the Instructional Team: A Learning Community for Multilingual Students"
Shawna Shapiro, Middlebury College, Burlington, VT, "College-Preparatory Advising in High School: Who Do Refugee Students Turn to, and
Why?"
Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "First-Year Composition Placement Advising: Bridging Communication Gaps between
Academic Advisors and Resident Multilingual Writers"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.22 	 Making Reading Public in College Writing
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: John Eliason, Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA
Speakers: Ann Ciasullo, Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA, "The StillCommon Disconnect Between College Reading and Writing"
John Eliason, Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA, "Expanding the Public
Sphere for College Reading and Writing"

190

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 190

1/22/13 4:07 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

H.23 	 Ethically Engaging Difference: Rhetorical Empathy,
Insider-Outsider Rhetoric, and Representations of
Disability
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Dominic Ashby, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Lisa Blankenship, Miami University, Oxford, OH "Ethical Imperatives: Rhetorical Empathy and Public Discourse"
Kevin Rutherford, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Moving Beyond 'The
Feels': Activism and Katawa Shoujo"
Dominic Ashby, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Contextualizing Affiliations: Fluid Insider-Outsider Identities"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.24 	 Intervention, Response, and the Conditions for Writing
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Victoria Stay, American Military University/American Public University, Charles Town, WV
Speakers: Scott O'Callaghan, Columbus, OH, "Making the Work of Response (More) Public: 'Authentic Workshops' of Teachers' Responses to
Student Writing, Shared among Peers"
James Daniel, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "The Writer as Agent: Intervention in the Writing Classroom"
Academic Writing

H.25 	 Teaching Research as Metadisciplinary Awareness
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Amanda Irwin Wilkins, Princeton University, NJ
Speakers: Amanda Irwin Wilkins, Princeton University, NJ, "Learning a
Different Discipline: Boot Camps for Dissertation Writers"
Andrea Scott, Princeton University, NJ, "Responding to the Citation Project: Teaching Source Use in FYC through Metadisciplinary Awareness"
Judith Swan, Princeton University, NJ, "Reading (and Writing) about the
Scientific Literature with International Graduate Students"
Keith Shaw, Princeton University, NJ, "Process as Disciplinary Catalyst in
Writing Centers"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 191

191

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.26 	 Pedagogies for The Globalized Classroom
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Margaret Willard-Traub, University of Michigan-Dearborn
Speakers: Margaret Willard-Traub, University of Michigan-Dearborn,
"Public Displays: Trans-cultural Pedagogies, Reflective Writing and the
Globalized Composition Classroom"
Kyle Nuske, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Intercultural Rhetoric:
Ideologies of Cultural Comparison and Pedagogical Applications in ESL
Writing Classrooms"
Santosh Khadka, Syracuse University, NY, "Multiliterate Composition
Framework for the Public Work of Composition"
Research

H.27 	 Genre and Public Sites
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Jonathan Bradshaw, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Speakers: Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis, "Genre Awareness as a Threshold Concept: Upper-Division Composition and Workplace Transfer"
Kate Pantelides, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Mapping New Public Directions in the Dissertation Genre Ecology"
Jonathan Bradshaw, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Composing 'From
Here Back': Antecedent Genres and Rhetorical Pasts"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.28 	 The Public Role of Writing and Technology for
Multilingual Learners and Writing Teacher Candidates
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Cate Crosby, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Cate Crosby, University of Cincinnati, OH, "The Public Role of
Writing and Second Language Writing (SLW) Teacher Candidates"
Christine Rosalia, Hunter College, CUNY, NY, "Teacher Preparation in a
Hybrid Writing Center"
Myra Goldschmidt, Pennsylvania State University, Brandywine, "Acquiring Public and Private Writing Literacy across Disciplines"

192

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 192

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Research

H.29 	 Composition and Its Publics: Three Moments of
Reckoning from 1954–2012
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor

Chair: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington
Speakers: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, "The Rhetoric of the Debate on Automated Essay Scoring: How We
Can Win It and How We Can Lose It"
Jonna Perrillo, University of Texas at El Paso, "Race and Representation in
Textbooks for Black Students in the 1960s and 1970s"
Nicole Wallack, Columbia College, New York, NY, "Lessons in Civil Discourse: Examining the Rhetoric of Civic Inclusion in Standardized Essay
Examinations from 1954–1964"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.30 	 Composing Beyond the Classroom: Situating FirstYear Composition in Digital Writing Environments
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Lisa J. McClure, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Speakers: Richard K. Angle, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "An
Emerging Bubble Text: Assessing the Impact of Microsoft Word's Commenting Feature on Perceptions of Instructor Response"
Robert Neil Calton, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Representing Classical Traits of a Rhetoric-Based Education in Digital Writing
Instruction Environments"
Jennifer M. Hewerdine, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Composing the Self: Agency in a Multimodal First-Year Composition Class"
Institutional and Professional

H.31 	 Asserting the Graduate Student Perspective:
Negotiating Identity Issues and Pedagogical
Concerns through the Practicum
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Jens Lloyd, University of California, Irvine
Speakers: Jens Lloyd, University of California, Irvine, "Peer Potential: Camaraderie and Collaboration for New GSIs in the Practicum"
Maureen Fitzsimmons, University of California, Irvine, "Podium Surfing:
GSIs and Expectations of the First-Year Writing Course"
Jessie Wirkus, University of California, Irvine, "The Effects of Feedback on
GSIs and Collaborative Practices"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 193

193

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.32 	 Gendered Literacy Practices In Digital Spaces
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Amber Nicole Pfannenstiel, Arizona State University, Tempe,
"Women Reading Romance Novels are Routinely Stereotyped and
Laughed At"
Jennifer Russum, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Craft Bloggers Permeate the Blogosphere"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.33 	 Narrative Genres in an Outcomes-Based World
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Co-Chairs: Elizabeth Kimball, City University of New York, NY
Emily Schnee, Kingsborough Community College (CUNY), NY
Speakers: Elizabeth Kimball, City University of New York, NY, "Pushing
the Limits of Genre: What Can + Should be Taught in First-Year Writing/
Freshman Composition Across Contexts"
Emily Schnee, Kingsborough Community College (CUNY), NY, "The Politics of Assessing Diverse Genres"
Research

H.34 	 Writing about Writing, Thinking about Thinking:
Promoting Transfer Within and Beyond First-Year
Composition
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Christina Hall, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "ClosedEnded vs. Open-Ended Prompts: Exploring Responses to Reflective
Writing Assignments"
Timothy Briggs, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "From Alphabetic
Texts to Multimodal Texts: The Transfer of Rhetorical Knowledge and
Composing Processes"
Marilyn Borner, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "The Metacognitive
Approach: Reflecting Upon the Writing Process to Transfer Knowledge
Across Assignments"

194

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 194

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.35 	 "Paying Attention" to Web 2.0: Social Media and the
Public Work of Composition
Skybox 202, Second Floor

Chair: Letizia Guglielmo, Kennesaw State University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Mark Gardner, Kennesaw State University, Atlanta, GA, "Social
Media and Peer Review: A Case Study of Edmodo in the First-year Composition Classroom"
Scott Singleton, Kennesaw State University, Atlanta, GA, "Remix: Social
Media and Copyright"
Jessica Price, Kennesaw State University, Atlanta, GA, "'Hello World. It's
me, Eve.' Introducing Eve to Web 2.0"
Julia Mann, Kennesaw State University, Atlanta, GA, "Social Media, Privacy, and the Composition Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.36 	 Reading to Lead and Writing to Win: Composing
Future Leaders of Character for the U.S. Air Force
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Jeffrey Collins, USAF Academy, CO
Speakers: Hugh Burns, USAF Academy, CO, "The Public Possibilities of
New Media Pedagogy: Shaping Arguments with Digital Video"
Andrea Van Nort, USAF Academy, CO, "Meeting Outcomes through Rogerian Argumentation and Institutional Collaboration"
Laura Joan Davies, USAF Academy, CO, "Creating Curriculum that Fits
the Place: What the USAFA's Mission Means to First-Year Writing"
Jeffrey Collins, USAF Academy, CO, "You Said What? Creative Nonfiction
in Coaching Advanced Rhetorical Understandings"
Research

H.37 	 Here Comes the Neighborhood: Re-Inventing the
University through Students' Stories
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, Houghton
Speakers: Jenn Fishmann, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, "The
Kairos of Sponsorship: Inquiry, Archive, and Emergent Value"
Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Starting Small:
Community Literacy and the Small Liberal Arts College"
Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "The Kairos of
Sponsorship: Inquiry, Archive, and Emergent Value"
Respondent: Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 195

195

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Open Working Meeting of the Working-Class Culture and
Pedagogy SIG
Room 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: William Thelin, University of Akron, OH

196

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 196

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Language

I.02 	 Complexities of Curricula in the "Global" Era:
Contesting Remediation across Contexts
Skybox 212, First Floor

Chair: Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Rachael Shapiro, Syracuse University, NY, "Balancing Contextual Obligations: Designing Basic Writing Curricula in the Global Era"
Iswari Pandey, Syracuse University, NY, "'Remediation' and English Writing Across the Borders"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.03 	 The High Stakes of "Real Writing": Digital Citizenship
Meets FYC
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Megan Fulwiler, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY
Speakers: Kim Middleton, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY, "Cut
and Print: The Remix Video Project"
Jennifer Marlow, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY, "Community and
Competencies: Rethinking Learning Outcomes for Members of a Writing Public"
Megan Fulwiler, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY, "Measuring and
Marketing: Institutional Identity, Accountability and Assessment"
Writing Programs

I.04 	 Invitations to Dialogue: Student Involvement in
Teaching for Transfer Across and Outside the
Composition Sequence
Capril 106, First Floor

Chair: Adrienne Jankens, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Amy Ann Metcalf, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "Lateral
Transfer in Basic Composition: Making Connections"
Adrienne Jankens, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "From Reflective
Dialogue to Reflective Practice: Integrating Teaching for Key Concepts
and Behaviors in the Introductory Writing Course"
Nicole Guinot Varty, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "How Do We
Actually Teach for Transfer?: Fostering Student Choice and Inviting Students to Engage"

200

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 200

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

I.05 	 A Writing Center Targets Writing in the STEM
Disciplines
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Enrico Sassi, North Dakota State University, Fargo
Speakers: Enrico Sassi, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Establishing a Graduate Disciplinary Writing Consultant (DWC) in the Sciences"
Mary Laughlin, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Researching Disciplinary Writing and Developing Resources for Writing Center Consultants"
Matt Warner, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Deploying Writing
Consultants as Writing Fellows in Undergraduate 'Writing in the Sciences' Classes"
Basic Writing

I.06 	 Like Salmon Swimming Upstream: Developing Writers,
Dams, and Scales
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Susan Lowry, Antelope Valley College, Lancaster, CA
Speakers: Scott Covell, Antelope Valley College, Lancaster, CA
Karen Lubick, Antelope Valley College, Lancaster, CA, "Scales: How Student Success is Weighed and Filleted"
Susan Lowry, Antelope Valley College, Lancaster, CA, "Dam(n) Building:
The Role Of Public Money and Public Policy in the Stream of Student
Success"
Basic Writing

I.07 	 Reacting, Rallying, Re-imagining: Full-Fledged
University Students, Basic Writers No More
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Don Kraemer, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
Speakers: Leonard Vandegrift, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, "Reacting, Rallying, Re-imagining: On Supporting a Stretched
First-Year Composition Program"
Kristy Hodson, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, "Reacting, Rallying, Re-imagining: On Teaching a Stretched First-Year Composition Course"
John Edlund, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, "Reacting,
Rallying, Re-imagining: On Stretching a First-Year Composition Program"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 201

201

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

I.08 	 Re-Organizing Graduate Education through
Community Engagement
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Academic Expertise and Antiracist Community Engagement"
Jessica Pauszek, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Creating Spaces
and Redefining Graduate Education through Community Engagement"
Ben Kuebrich, Syracuse University, NY, "Organizer First, Teacher Second,
Grad Student Third: Shifting Priorities and Still Getting Done"
Respondent: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, Philadelphia, PA
Information Technologies

I.09 	 Going Public: Composing New Boundaries of Public
and Private Discourses
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Lanette Cadle, Missouri State University, Springfield
Speakers: Michael McGinnis, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "The
Post-Public Work of Composition"
Patricia Cady, Washington State University, Pullman, "Overhear Over
There: Examining the Effects of Cell Phones on Public/Private Communication"
Matthew Bridgewater, Bowling Green State University, OH, "'We're hiring!': Portraying Gender and Age in Corporate Culture Web Pages"
Dawn Armfield, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, "Ad Infinitum: A Remediation of the Postcard in Postsecret"
Institutional and Professional

I.10 	 Machine Grading, For-Profit Writing Classes, and
Utilitarian Service: Emergent Formations of the
Neoliberal University
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Marc Bousquet, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Daphne Desser, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, "Responding
to the Rise of the Phoenix: Teacher-Training, Critical Pedagogy, and the
For-Profit University"
Phyllis Ryder, George Washington University, Takoma Park, MD, "Public
Work of Universities: Democracy, Marketing, and Service Learning"
Darin Payne, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, "21st Century Technologies
and the Composition Factory"

202

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 202

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

I.11 	 Snapshots of the Field
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Barbara Todish, Kean University, Newark, NJ
Speakers: Suellynn Duffey, University of Missouri, St. Louis, "Sites of
Writing in Graduate Education"
Susan Youngblood, Auburn University, AL, "Nonprofits and Service Learning: What Projects Do They Want Help With?"
Josh Lederman, Wellesley College, Somerville, MA, "Validating Basic
Writing Placement Decisions: A Proposed Methodology and Model"
Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University, NJ, "Writing Instruction, Support,
and Administration at the U.S. State University: A Comparative Review
of 106 Representative Institutions"
Theory

I.12 	 Shifting Imbedded Perceptions: Non-Western
Feminists Writing and Speaking in the Public Sphere
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Speakers: Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Laureana
Wright de Kleinhans: Writing Mexican Women into the History of Rhetoric"
Nicole Khoury, Arizona State University, Tempe, "A Non-Western Rhetorical Articulation of Gendered Citizenship in a Lebanese Feminist Journal"
Elizabeth Lowry, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, "A Child-Spirit
Named Pinkie: Postcolonialism, Citizenship, and Self-Construction in
Nettie Colburn Maynard's Was Abraham Lincoln a Spiritualist?"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

I.13 	 Exploring Cross-Language Work in History, Theory,
and Practice: Reworking Languages in Teaching and
Research
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH,
"Composing-Paraphrasing-Translating: The (re)Work of Cross-Language Research"
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY, "Redefining Translingual Writing"
LuMing Mao, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Inside the Translingual
Norm: Unpacking the What and the How of Translingual Practices"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 203

203

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

I.14 	 From the Front Lines of Composition's Public Work:
Leadership in Two-Year College English Departments
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Jeffrey Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ
Speakers: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC
Eric Bateman, San Juan College, Farmington, NM
Stephen Ruffus, Salt Lake Community College, UT
Jeffrey Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ
Respondent: Andy Anderson, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS
Institutional and Professional

I.15 	 Expanding Our Definitions of 21st Century Writing
Instruction: Online Conferencing, Academic Service
Learning, and Writing/Education
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Heidi Stevenson, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Speakers: Kia Jane Richmond, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Matthew Kilian McCurrie, Columbia College, Chicago IL
Lisa Eckert, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Information Technologies

I.16 	 Experience and Identity Bytes: Researching How
Digitization Influences the Development of Future
Public Writers
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Kate Crane, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Andrea Beaudin, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "(Re)Emphasizing Experience: Moving Past Lore to Usability in Digital Composition Research"
Ana Krahmer, University of North Texas, Denton, "Beyond Google: Promoting Digitized Primary Sources in Research"
Jason Edwards, University of Arkansas, Little Rock, "e-Books Do a Student
Reader Make? Case Study Observations on Technology, Literacy, and
Identity"
Kate Crane, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "(Re)Emphasizing Experience: Moving Past Lore to Usability in Digital Composition Research"

204

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 204

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Research

I.17 	 Research about First-Year and Multilingual Students
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ
Speakers: James Purdy, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA, "Challenging
Public Perceptions: Why First-Year Writing Students Select Research
Resources as Their Favorite"
Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ, "Academic Discourse as a Threshold Concept: Multilingual Students and the Challenge
of Textual Engagement"
Sara Biggs Chaney, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, "The Davis Study of
First-Year Student Writing at Dartmouth"
Theory

I.18 	 Expanding the Conversation about Religious
Rhetorics: Current Trends, Future Directions
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA
Speakers: Tom Deans, University of Connecticut, Storrs, "Sacred Texts,
Secular Classrooms, and the Teaching of Theory: Religion and Rhetorical Education"
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Examining the
Cultural Functions of Sacred Rhetorics through the Framework of Display: Religion and Rhetorical History"
William Duffy, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC, "Religion and
Progressive Social Movements: Religion and Public Rhetoric"
Brian Jackson, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, "Defining Religious
Rhetoric: Religion and Rhetorical Theory"
Lawrence Prelli, University of New Hampshire, Durham, NH, "Rhetorical
Features of Green Evangelicalism: Religion and Public Rhetoric"
Jeffrey Ringer, Lee University, Cleveland, TN, "A Review of the Discussion about Religion in Composition Studies: Religion and Rhetorical
Education"
Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI, "The Metaphors
We Use to Discuss Religious Rhetorics: Religion and Rhetorical Theory"
Heather Thomson-Bunn, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA, "Critical Reflection and Qualitative Data: Religion and Rhetorical Methodology"
Lisa Shaver, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "The Great Deaconess Debate:
Religion, Rhetorical History, and Public Rhetoric"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 205

205

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Theory

I.19 	 Kairos and Silence
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Paula Gillespie, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Stephanie White, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Can Kairos Be Taught? Agency, Publics, and Multimodality in Writing Instruction"
Suzan Aiken, Saginaw Valley State University, MI, "Public Uses of Rhetorical Silence as Multi-modal and Feminist Practice"
Craig Rood, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, "Kairotic Collaboration: An Argument for Moments of Silence"
Theory

I.20 	 When the Private Goes Public: Addressing Legal and
Medical Rhetoric in Professional and Technical Writing
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Jeannie Waller, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Speakers: Katherine S. Miles, Texas A&M University-Central Texas, "Legal Rhetoric: Improving the Public Work of Pattern Instructions"
Jacquline Cottle, Roger Williams University, Rumford, RI, "Legal Rhetoric: Improving the Public Work of Pattern Instructions"
Lorna Gonzalez, Graduate Student, University of California Santa Barbara,
"Espoused, Enacted, and Ascribed Values in Innovation Diffusion: Results from a Study of Electronic Health Records"
Robin Gosser, Auburn University, AL, "Making Private Documents Public: The Challenges of Image Dichotomy for Technical and Professional
Communicators"
Language

I.21 	 The Language and Literacy Diversity Project: Using
Linguistic Survey Data to Inform Writing Pedagogy,
Writing Research, and Writing Program Assessment
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York
Speakers: Michelle Cox, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Revising Our
Categories: Some Conceptual Questions about Linguistic Diversity and
Language Identity"
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, "The Language Background
Survey: Issues of Construction and Interpretation"
Angela Dadak, American University, Washington, DC, "Classroom Writing
Instructors and a Language and Literacy Background Survey: Translingual Pedagogy by the Numbers"
Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York, "The Need for
a National Instrument: The Language and Literacy Diversity Project"

206

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 206

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.22 	 Authorship, Writing Spaces, and Shifting Roles
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Julia Voss, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Kate Latterell, Penn State Altoona, "Can We Get Permission for
That? Textbook Authoring in an (Increasingly) eBook World"
Maria Soriano, John Carroll University, Shaker Heights, OH, "When WAC
Becomes TAC: The Shifting Roles of FYC Classrooms and Instructors"
Julia Voss, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "'I don't like having such
a small space for this and a small space for that': Spaces for Writing on
College Campuses"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

I.23 	 Narrating One's Way through New Interdisciplinary
Perspectives for Ethical Communication
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Geoffrey Clegg, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Speakers: Nathan Shepley, University of Houston, TX, "Going Public from
Anthropologists' Scripts: What Compositionists Can Learn from NonCompositionists about Linking Communities and Research"
Alison Sutherland, Arizona State University, Tempe, "New Disciplinary
Infrastructures, New Ideas: Institutional Change and Its Effects on Epistemology"
Helen Lee, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Career Readiness:
Narrative as Road to Ethical Communication in Professional Schools"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.24 	 Student Identity and the Practices of First-Year Writing
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Wioleta Fedeczko, Utah Valley University, Orem
Speakers: Bob Lazaroff, Nassau Community College, NY, "Someone Take
the Wheel: Academic Third Space and the Community College Student"
Wioleta Fedeczko, Utah Valley University, Orem, "The School for Dropouts: Defending Access at an Open-Enrollment Campus"
Kelly Fletcher, Clayton State University, Stockbridge, GA, "Public Work:
Voices for the Voiceless"
Margaret Fletcher, Clayton State University, Stockbridge, GA, "Public
Work: Voices for the Voiceless"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 207

207

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

I.25 	 Expansive Minds and Narrow-Mindedness: Public
Schools, Collaboration, and Critical Thinking
Assessment
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Lacey Donohue, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: Amanda Bloom, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Applying Rubrics and Applying Results"
Lacey Donohue, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "High
School Collaboration and Assessment"
Christopher Muniz, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "Curricular Innovation and Limitation"
History

I.26 	 Creative Publics: Constructing Institutional Histories
through Student Voices in the Archives
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Wilmington, MA
Speakers: Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Wilmington, MA, "Ahead
of Their Time? Student Voices in the Lasell College Student Newspaper,
1875–1975"
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "'Creating a desire for knowledge . . .': Cecilia Hendricks and the Use of Student Voices
in Forming College English at Indiana University, 1931–1953"
Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, NH, "Student Voices in the Extracurricular Writing Life of the University of New Hampshire, 1920–
1950"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.27 	 Minding the Publics and the Work of Composition:
Disability, Dysfluency, and Neurodiversity
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
Speakers: Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, "Disabling Economies of Composition"
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Rainman, Autism, and the Time-Spaces of Composition"
Craig A. Meyer, Ohio University, Athens, "Minding the Stutter: Dysfluent
Moments, Environments, and Potentials"

208

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 208

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

History

I.28 	 Rhetoric, Literacy, and the Historical Public
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Kristi Melancon, Mississippi College, Clinton
Speakers: Timothy R. Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY, "Julius Lester's 'The Other Side of the Tracks': Public Profeminist and Radical Racial Alliance Rhetoric in a 1968 Black Power Newspaper"
Sarah Klotz, University of California, Davis, "Lydia Sigourney and the
Anti-Removal Rhetoric of Sentiment"
Kristi Melancon, Mississippi College, Clinton, "'Let the Public Know and
Judge': The New Orleans Tribune as an Alternative Court of Law"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.29 	 What Happens in the Classroom Can't Stay in the
Classroom: Helping Working-Class Writers Negotiate
Public Rhetorics
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Sharon Henry, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, "Facebook and the Gramscian Organic Intellectual?"
Gae Lyn Henderson, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Composing Class Distinctions: The Self-Help Manual as Antidote to Suffering"
Sharon Henry, Clemson University, SC, "Composition Class Warfare:
Helping Working-Class Students Navigate Academia"
Research

I.30 	 The Power of Talk: Using Interviews and Discourse
Analysis to Uncover Ideologies about Race, Violence,
and Identity in Composition Scholarship and Practice
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Santa Fe
Speakers: Melinda McBee Orzulak, Bradley University, Peoria, IL, "Disinviting Deficit Ideologies: Beyond That's Standard, That's Racist, or
That's Your Mother Tongue"
Hannah Dickinson, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva, NY, "The
Invisible 'I': Students Talk about Writing on Violence"
Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Santa Fe, "What's Identity Got
to Do With It? Instructors' Talk About Writing and Identity"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 209

209

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.31 	 From Private Practice to Public Work(s): Mindfully
Re-visioning Classroom Contact Zones into "Affective
Communities"
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Sarah Sandman, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne
Speakers: Jeremy Carnes, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Collusion
and Collision: the Borderlands of Residence Life and the Public Work of
the Composition Classroom"
Sarah Sandman, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne, "Teaching Students to Slow Down: Using Mindfulness in the Public Space of
the Classroom"
Edward Chambers, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Retooling the Contact Zone by Changing First-Year Composition Class to First-Year Community"
Community, Civic & Public

I.32 	 Learning Dangerously: Student Activism in the
Classroom
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Cindy Mooty, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Sarah Finn, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Student Activism and Academic Writing: Social Action and the Composition Classroom"
Tanya Cochran, Union College, Lincoln, NE, "Learning to Speak a Commodious Language: Public Social Activism on a Private College Campus"
Jill Morstad, Union College, Lincoln, NE, "Learning to Speak a Commodious Language: Public Social Activism on a Private College Campus"
Alli Hammond, University of Cincinnati, OH, "The Year of Teaching Dangerously: Committing to the Public Work of Civic and Media Literacy"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.33 	 (Em)bracing the Urge to Read Student Work Differently:
	
A Discussion of the Opportunities Created by Digital
Texts
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Benjamin Bogart, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Benjamin Bogart, University of Louisville, KY, "What We Have
Here is a Failure to Negotiate: New Strategies for Teaching Responsible
Reading and Productive Responding in the Writing Classroom"
continued on next page

210

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 210

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Jaimie Young, Missouri State University, Springfield, "'That's Not How I
Talk': Private Student Revisions in Public Spaces"
Jennifer Klein, Ozarks Technical College, Springfield, MO, "Reassessing
the Instructor's Role as Reader with Online Student Texts"
Margaret Weaver, Missouri State University, Springfield, "'Seeing' Student
Texts Differently through Visual Intertextuality"
Community, Civic & Public

I.34 	 Sites of Resistance and Disruption: Constructing a
Participatory Citizenship through Women's Rhetorical
Agency
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Jacqueline Jones Royster, Georgia Tech, Atlanta
Speakers: Lauren Connolly, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Active
Citizens, Active Literacies: Participatory Citizenship through Women's
Rhetorical Practices"
Emma Howes, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Re-Examining Literacies in the Carolina Mills: Reading and Writing Appalachian Women's Identities"
Lauren Rosenberg, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic,
"Disrupting Non-Literacy: Speaking and Writing Toward Greater Civic
Participation"
Institutional and Professional

I.35 	 Changing Perceptions of Writing Program
Administrator Authority and Identity in the
Past Twenty-Five Years
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Barbara L'Eplattenier, University of Arkansas–Little Rock
Speakers: Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, "Through a
Glass Darkly: Power, Authority, and the Digital WPA"
Barbara L'Eplattenier, University of Arkansas–Little Rock, "Revisiting
'Directing Freshman Composition: The Limits of Authority': A Quarter
Century of Change"
Jonnika Charlton, Edinburg, TX, "Changing Portraits of WPA Identity"
Amy Heckathorn, Sacramento, CA, "Two Steps Forward, One Step Back:
WPAs as Professional Bureaucrats"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 211

211

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Open Working Meeting of the Teaching Adult Writers in
Diverse Settings SIG
Room 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Chair: Sonia Feder-Lewis, St. Mary's University, St. Paul, MN

212

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 212

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

J.02 	 Going "Glocal": Considering Literacies in Isolation
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks
Speakers: Peter Goggin, Arizona State University, Mesa, "Writing in the
Fringes: Glocalization and Literacy Sponsorship in Islands (and other
Geographical Oddities)"
Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, "The Paradox of Isolation: Rural Literacy, Global Connection, and the Continual
Choice to Stay"
Emily Cooney, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Javanese Rice Farming:
A Case for Recomposing Public Narratives of Globalization, Ethics, and
Sustainability"
Community, Civic & Public

J.03 	 Powwows, Prisons, and Pedagogies: Reinvigorating
The (Counter)Public Work of Composition
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Anna Plemons, Washington State University, Pullman, "The
(Counter)Public and the IRB or How Community Projects Get
'Schooled'"
Alanna Frost, University of Alabama, Huntsville, "Multilingual Students,
Eportfolios, and (Proto)Public Engagement"
Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman, "Indigenous (Counter)Public Methodologies"
Basic Writing

J.04 	 Legitimizing Basic Writers: A Public Conversation
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Carolyn Ostrander, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Deborah Marrott, Utah Valley University, Elk Ridge, "(More)
Public Conversations about Writing and Literacy: Renewing the Call for
Student-Present Research in Basic Writing"
Dawn Terrick, Missouri Western State University, St Joseph, "From Private
to Public, From Marginal to Mainstream: Legitimizing the Work of the
Basic Writing Student"

214

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 214

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

J.05 	 Themes of Performance to Teach Writing Cross
Disciplines: Food, Acting, and Performances
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Anthony Guy Patricia, University of Nevada, Las Vegas
Speakers: Emily James, Independent Scholar, Nashville, TN, "The Public
Work of Consumption: How a Food-Themed Composition Course Can
be a Recipe for Student Success"
Kim Freeman, Northeastern University, Somerville, MA, "'The Play's the
Thing': Performance, Play, and Publics in Writing in the Disciplines"
Cynthia Fields, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Personal Voice and Polyphony:
Engaging Discourses of Power and Community through Letter Writing"
Dan Weinstein, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Improvisational Acting as Preparation for Reading"
Academic Writing

J.06 	 Virtual Publics, Real Argument
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Speakers: Trish Roberts-Miller, University of Texas at Austin, "Erotics of
Outrage and the Pleasures of Bad Arguments"
Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, "Conflating Academic
and Civic Argument: Composition Textbooks and the Common Core
State Standards"
John Jones, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Writing Information
Publics: The Pleasures of the Personal Web"
Basic Writing

J.07 	 Using Portfolios to Even the Odds: Rethinking the
Portfolio Process in Placement, Instruction, and
Assessment.
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Ken Hayes, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Ken Hayes, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Reading into
FYC: Using Evaluative Norming Practices in Freshman Writing Courses"
Stephen Boston, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Using Portfolios
for Placing Students into First-Year Writing Courses: Strengthening
Writing Assessment Practices and Student Placement Methods"
Dustin Wenrich, Norfolk, VA, "E-portfolio as Oddsmaker: Portfolios and
Formative Assessment in a Digital Environment"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 215

215

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

J.08 	 Growing Community: Public Writing About Food
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Bill Doyle, University of Tampa, FL
Speakers: Marta Hess, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Speaking Outside the Kitchen: Community Cookbooks as Public Discourse"
Mike Pennell, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "'Tweet that fish': Social Media and the Local Food Movement"
Bill Doyle, University of Tampa, FL, "The Foodways Symposium: Connecting Student and Community Voices"
Information Technologies

J.09 	 Web 2.0 and the Public Work of Composition
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Christine Masters Jach, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Jeffrey Gerding, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Visualizing Dissent: Analyzing the Role of Posters in the Occupy Movement"
Hayley Zertuche, Clemson University, SC, "Invasive Species: Neozoon and
Composition"
Christine Masters Jach, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "(Kitchen?)
Cabinet of Wonders: Pinterest as Everyday Writing"
Information Technologies

J.10 	 Takin' It to the Streets: Public Spaces and Public
Faces of Multimodal Composition
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
Speakers: Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, Pullman, WA,
"Where the Rubber Meets the Road: Taking Multimodal Composition
Public"
Elizabeth Edwards, Washington State University, Pullman, "Dancing to a
New Beat: Music, Rhetoric, and Multimodality"
Tialitha Macklin, Washington State University, Pullman, "Multimodality in
Motion: Moving from the Byway to the Open Highway"
Leeann Hunter, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, "Multimodality Unplugged"
Writing Programs

J.11 	 Writing as an Academic Skill and a Liberal Art:
From High School to College and Beyond
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Akua Duku Anokye, Arizona State University, Glendale

216

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 216

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Speakers: Danielle Zawodny Wetzel, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "Teaching toward Advanced Literacy Practices"
Mary Trachsel, University of Iowa, Iowa City, "Understanding How Our
Pedagogy Shapes Students' Strengths and Weaknesses"
Writing Programs

J.12 	 Engaged Assessment/Effective Pedagogy:
Fostering Community Engagement through
Assessment Practices
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Richard Johnson-Sheehan, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Tristan Abbott, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "The
Gradebook as the Enemy of Public Writing"
Fredrik DeBoer, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN, "The Gradebook as the
Enemy of Public Writing"
Patti Poblete, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN, "Battlegrounds and Common Grounds: First-Year Composition and Institutional Values"
Theory

J.13 	 Students Rights to Their Own Identities:
The Importance of Queerying Language
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY
Speakers: Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York,
NY, "Thinking Outside the Triangle: Performing/Uttering/Composing
Ourselves"
Glenn Michael Gordon, Columbia College, New York, NY, "Writing About
Gender or Sexual Identity When You Didn't Know You Had One"
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA, "Gender-Neutral Pronouns and the Student Body: Genderqueer Words at a 'Women's' College"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.14 	 Little Did We Know . . . : Using Reflective Practice to
Publicize Student Research Processes
Capri 109, First Floor
Chair: Seth Myers, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Speakers: Seth Myers, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Matthew Moberly, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Theresa Westbrock, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 217

217

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

J.15 	 Web 2.0 as Public Writing: Composition, Collaboration,
and Discourse Community in Social Media
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Cara Kozma, High Point University, NC
Speakers: Jennifer Michaels, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Social Media as Collaborative Research and Invention Sites for Composition Students"
Brian Larson, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Examining a Twitter-Based Discourse Community of Composition Scholars"
Kristin Mock, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Collaborative Blogs as Public Work: Possibilities for the Maker Subculture in Digital Spaces"
Basic Writing

J.16 	 Trends in Accelerated Learning Programs
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Robert Miller, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Monica Walker, The Community College of Baltimore County,
MD, "An Analysis of the Results Gathered from the Collected Data"
Cheryl Scott, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD, "A General Overview of the Accelerated Learning Program at CCBC and Nationally"
Robert Miller, The Community College of Baltimore County, MD, "The
Creation of the Website and the Process of Gathering Information"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.17 	 Defining Where We Work: The Role of Composition in
Discipline Formation
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Sarah Frank, University of Texas at Austin
Speakers: Eric Detweiler, The University of Texas at Austin, "-, And, /?:
An Empirical Examination of the Disciplinary Relationship Between
'Rhetoric' and 'Composition'"
Mary Hedengren, University of Texas at Austin, "Scaffold for a Discipline:
A Creative Writing Studies Journal"
Sarah Frank, University of Texas at Austin, "Disciplining Women's and
Gender Study"

218

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 218

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Theory

J.18 	 Sustainability, Food Justice, and Biocentric Rhetorics
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: LauraAnne Carroll-Adler, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles
Speakers: Anne Rosenthal, Oglethorpe University, Atlanta, GA, "Just
Food? Cultural Rhetorics and Politics of Food Justice Movements"
Lonni Pearce, University of Colorado at Boulder, "Rhetorics of Sustainability and the Problem of Time"
Brian Cope, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Can That Pine Tree Talk?
Expanding Composition to Consider A Biocentric Rhetoric of Public Action"

J.19 	 The Content of Writing Courses: Popular Culture
Themes to Teach Argumentation
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer Fisch-Ferguson, Graduate Student, Fenton, MI
Speakers: Shannon Howard, University of Louisville, KY, "The TV Superviewer Meets the Conversation Metaphor: Building a Research Scaffold
from Multiple Points of View in Pop Culture Narratives"
Young-kyung Min, University of Washington at Bothell, "Tracing the Rhetoric of Writing Pedagogy: Writing Studies Approach vs. Cultural Studies
Approach"
Randall Fallows, University of California Los Angeles, "Monty Python's
Argument Sketch and the Drawbacks of Either/Or Propositions"
Institutional and Professional

J.20 	 The Undergraduate Major and the New Publics of
Rhetoric and Writing Studies
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Linda Ferreira-Buckley, University of Texas at Austin, "When
'Rhetoric' and 'Writing' Don't Overlap"
Glen McClish, San Diego State University, CA, "'Or better still, tell us
yourself, Gorgias, what your art is . . .': Establishing a Major in Rhetoric
and Writing Studies in a Lean Season"
Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY, "The Useful Constraints of the Undergraduate Writing and Rhetoric Major"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 219

219

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

J.21 	 Start Playing Around: Videogames and Pedagogy in a
New Key
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer Courtney, Salt Lake Community College, UT
Speakers: Marc Santos, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Kynicism,
Gamification, and sf0"
James Daley, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Konami Coding the
Classroom: How Gamification and Procedural Rhetoric Can Unlock the
Ludic Potential of Student Writing"
Jason Custer, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Play and Praxis: Engaging 21st Century Literacies with Videogame-Infused Composition
Pedagogy"
Community, Civic & Public

J.22 	 Conceptualizing Public Discourse
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Joyce King-McIver, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI
Speakers: Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Composing Publics: The Constitutive Work of Composition in an Age of Uncertainty"
Antonia Massa-MacLeod, University of Wisconsin, Madison, "Sustainability, Material Rhetoric, and the Globalization of Local Knowledge"
Katie Pryal, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Making Madness Public: The Genre of Coming Out Stories of the Psychiatrically
Disabled"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

J.23 	 Adventurous Digital Pedagogies: From Multimodality
to Classical Rhetoric
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Jessica Darkenwald-DeCola, Rutgers University, NJ
Speakers: Julia Mason, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Reimagining Progymnasmata: Classical Rhetoric for the Digital Student"
Jessica Darkenwald-DeCola, Rutgers University, NJ, "Multimodal Composition in the Community College: Moving From and Beyond Students'
'Comfort Zone'"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

J.24 	 Strategies for Public Rhetoric
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Jeanne Marie Rose, Penn State University, Berks, PA

220

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 220

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Speakers: Jeanne Marie Rose, Penn State University, Berks, PA, "Making
Time Public: Teaching for Temporal Awareness"
Megan Eatman, University of Texas at Austin, "Personalization and Civic
Engagement: Pedagogical Strategies"
Sonya Borton, Lipscomb University, Nashville, TN, "Peer Review, Pixar,
and Persuasion: A Method for Preparing Students for the Public Domain
of Written Communication"
History

J.25 	 Archival Research and the Origins of Composition
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Denton
Speakers: Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Denton, "Accreditation and the Origins of Composition"
Michael Michaud, Rhode Island College and Depaul University, North
Kingstown, RI, "'Now I'll Tell You about the Great Revolution': Donald
Murray and The Transformation of Freshman English at the University
of New Hampshire"
Mathew Oakes, Rock Valley College/University of Illinois-Chicago, "Good
Enough for Just Long Enough: The Sophistic Ethics of the CCCCs,
1949–1970"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

J.26 	 Plagiarism and the Student Author: Publics, Policies,
Pedagogies
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Jillian Skeffington, Grant MacEwan University, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada
Speakers: Star Medzerian, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale,
FL, "Plagiarism in the Public Sphere: How Popular Discourses Represent Student Authors"
David Reamer, University of Tampa, FL, "Expulsion, Vengeance, and Eternal Damnation: Students' Visual Representations of Plagiarism"
Jillian Skeffington, Grant MacEwan University, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, "Plagiarism and Procedural Fairness: Moving from Morality to Education"
Cristine Busser, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, "Artistry as Originality: A Composition Fellow's Account of Student Patchwriting"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 221

221

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

J.27 	 Public Discourse as Rhetorical Situation in the
First-Year Writing Classroom
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Lisa Lebduska, Wheaton College, Norton, MA
Speakers: Tanya Rodrigue, Salem State University, MA, "Rhetorical
Dwelling in the 2012 Presidential Campaign"
Connie Campana, Wheaton College, Norton, MA, "Writing from the Podium of the World"
Lisa Lebduska, Wheaton College, Norton, CT, "Exploring Visual Rhetoric
in the Trayvon Martin Killing: When Pictures Alone are Not Worth a
Thousand Words"
Academic Writing

J.28 	 Approaches to Teaching and Conducting Research:
The Possibilities for Student Research
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Tara Hembrough, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Speakers: Karen E. Rayne, Salisbury University, MD, "Researching the
Researchers: Meta-Use of Technology and Language Research Papers"
Karla Lyles, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "The Way Language
Works: Using Content Analysis to Teach Students about Research Design, Writing, and the Role of News Media in Public Perception"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

J.29 	 Using Translingual Pedagogies Across Disciplines to
Teach Writing in the Disciplines
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Brenda Spencer, Ivy Tech Community College, Indianapolis, IN
Speakers: Mellisa Huffman, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque,
"Getting on the Same Page: Using an Ethnolinguistically-Informed Heuristic within Collaborative Writing Situations"
Paul Martin, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Writing across the
Curriculum at UCF: An Examination of the Reading, Writing, and Research Process of UCF Faculty from across Disciplines"
Katia Morais, Universidade Federal do Pampa, Rio Grande do Sul, "Translingual Model at Work: A First Step in Brazil"

222

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 222

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

J.30 	 A Campus Collaboration for Critical and Information
Literacy: Enhancing the Hybrid/Studio Approach to
First-Year Writing
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Michelle Miley, University of Houston, TX
Speakers: Michelle Miley, University of Houston, TX, "Extending Information Literacy across the Disciplines"
Mary Gray, University of Houston, TX, "Aligning Course Design with the
Writing/Research Process"
Kerry Creelman, University of Houston Libraries, TX, "Enhancing Information Literacy through Studio Methodology"
Language

J.31 	 Language Difference as Resource: An Expanded,
Multi-Level Approach to Linguistic Difference in
First-Year Composition
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis
Speakers: Steve Fox, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis,
"Language Difference in the Major and Beyond"
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis,
"Language Difference in the Classroom: A Meaning-Centered Response
Model"
Scott Weeden, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis, "Language Difference in the Writing Program: Working Toward a Collaborative Language Policy"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

J.32 	 The Working-Class Imperative in the Public Work of
Composition: Creating and Critiquing Pedagogies
Designed For and Against Working-Class Student
Populations
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Speakers: Genesea Carter, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "You
Want Me to Write What? Encouraging Working-Class Student Voices
through Discourse Analysis"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 223

223

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Jes Hodgson, University of Missouri-Columbia, "Composition Students in
the Public Sphere: Is Service Learning Pedagogy Accessible for Working-Class Students?"
Paula Battistelli, Huston-Tillotson University, TX, "Transmitted or Constructed? Exploring Valuations of Working-Class Identity in Freshman
Composition Assignments"
Research

J.33 	 Research on Writing Courses and Novice Writing
Teachers
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Orem
Speakers: Carolyn Wisniewski, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "How
a Rhetoric-Based FYC Curriculum Fails: The Problem of Novice Teachers' Rhetorical Knowledge"
Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Critical Learning: Theory, Research and Content Underwriting Project-based Approaches In
The Teaching of Writing"
Joleen Hanson, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "Composition as an Expansive Site of Cross-Disciplinary Literacy Research"
Basic Writing

J.34 	 Troubling Placement in Basic Writing
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor

Chair: Sarah Kirk, University of Alaska Anchorage
Speakers: Sarah Kirk, University of Alaska Anchorage, "Tracking Student
Success: Evaluating a Local Writing Sample as an Additional Placement
Tool for Basic Writing Students"
Sean Molloy, Hunter College, CUNY, New York, NY, "'Caught in the Net
of Numbers': How Mina Shaughnessy Validated High-Stakes Writing
Course Exit Test"
Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI, "Own
Your Own Placement: Self-Efficacy and the Public Face of Directed
Self-Placement"
Ashley Ludewig, University of Louisville, KY, "(Re)Investigating Writing
Apprehension as a Placement Tool: A Qualitative Exploration of Writing
Apprehension with First-Year, At-Risk Writers"
Research

J.35 	 Necessary Failures: New Contexts
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: I. Moriah McCracken, St. Edward's University, Austin

224

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 224

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Speakers: I. Moriah McCracken, St. Edward's University, Austin, "Failure,
Discomfort, and Pushing Through"
Allison D. Carr, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Affecting Failures"
Respondent: Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno

J.36 	 The Hazards of Placement Based on Language Tests
and on ESL Labels
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Monique Akassi, Bowie State University, MD
Speakers: Hem Paudel, University of Louisville, KY, "Difference as a
Norm: Toward a Theory of Dialogical Pedagogy in the Context of Increasing Diversity in Student Population"
Helena Hall, Loras College, Dubuque, IA, "Emerging Academic Writers:
What ESL Composition Classes Can Offer"
Emily Walters, University of Dayton, OH, "Changing College Composition
on a Global Scale: The Importance and Re-evaluation of the TOEFL
Exam in Regards to Second Language College Students"
Jennifer Maloy, Queensborough Community College, NY, "Generation 1.5
Students in the Basic Writing Classroom: What Experience Teaches"
Basic Writing

J.37 	 Fostering Reading Identity for Students in the
Developmental Writing Classroom
Skybox 202, Second Floor

Chair: Meghan Sweeney, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Cheryl Hogue Smith, Kingsborough Community College,
CUNY, NY, "Basic Writers as Basic Readers: Addressing Obstacles to
Academic Literacy
Meghan Sweeney, University of Nevada, Reno, "Fostering Reading Identity for Students in the Developmental Writing Classroom"
Maureen McBride, University of Nevada, Reno, "Fostering Reading Identity for Students in the Developmental Writing Classroom"

Open Working Meeting of the Women's Network SIG
Room 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are Invited.
Co-Chairs: Kristin Bivens, City Colleges of Chicago, IL
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Wausau
Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 225

225

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Research

K.03 	 The Triforce of Wisdom: Student Engagement, Gaming
Practices, and Writing Pedagogy
Skybox 205, Second Floor
Chair: Evan Snider, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Speakers: Jennifer Grouling, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Stephanie Hedge, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Evan Snider, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Community, Civic & Public

K.04 	 Creating Public Spaces for Veterans' Voices
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Lisa Laangstrat, Colorado State University, Ft. Collins
Speakers: Mariana Grohowski, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Public Absences, Private Presences: Understanding Servicewomen's use of
Digital Communication Technologies"
Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Portsmouth, "The Space
Where Private Becomes Public: Rebuilding Communities in Writing
Workshops for Veterans"
Kendra Coker, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC, "Public and
Private Roles In The University: Supporting Veterans In The Classroom"
Catherine St Pierre, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Veterans' Literacy Narratives: What We Learn By Listening"
Community, Civic & Public

K.05 	 Appropriating Public Voices: Rhetorics of Exclusion
in/through/with Science
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Maureen Mathison, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Maureen Mathison, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "When
the Voice Speaking Isn't Your Own: A Rhetorical Analysis of Appropriating Findings"
Susan Sample, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "The Rhetorical Power
of Silence in EOL Conversations: Medicine Dominates Even When Dying Is (Not) Discussed in the Public Domain"
Aaron Phillips, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Wyoming's Wayward
Wolves: In the Crosshairs of Ecology and Economics"
Isabel Gardett, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Hearings, Committees,
and 'Fake Participation' at the FDA"

230

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 230

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.06 	 Research, Writing, and Service: Empirical Methods
and Writing Pedagogy in Civic Engagement Projects
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Michele Simmons, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Speakers: Ethan Sproat, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "A Dialogical Approach to Service-Learning Writing"
Allen Brizee, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore, "Mixed-Methods
Usability Research as Design Model and Teaching Tool"
Karen Kaiser Lee, Youngstown State University, OH, "Introducing Primary
Research Skills to First-Year Composition Students"
Institutional and Professional

K.07 	 The Public and Private Faces of Composition for
Scholars on the Tenure Track: Examining Disciplinary
Identity
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Lauren DiPaula, Georgia Southwestern State University, Americus
Speakers: Krystia Nora, California University of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh,
"Surveying Composition's Tenure-Track Scholars: Who We Hope to Be"
Lauren DiPaula, Georgia Southwestern State University, Americus, "Shifting Identities: Challenging the Heart of Composition Studies"
Paul Dahlgren, Georgia Southwestern State University, Americus, "The
Tenure Conscious: Becoming Disciplined"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.08 	 Digital Infrastructure: Re-Wiring the First-Year
Composition Classroom
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: David Becker, Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau
Speakers: Katherine Markey, Southeast Missouri State University, Cape
Girardeau, "Making It Public: Establishing Student Authority in the
Blended FYC Classroom"
Rhyen Campbell, Southeast Missouri State University, Cape Girardeau,
"Bridging the Gap Between Social Media and Composition: Using Social Media as a Catalyst for Student Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 231

231

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Theory

K.09 	 Learning (Again) from Las Vegas
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Scot Barnett, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Jeff Swift, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "The Strip
and Digital Writing: Aspiring for Imperfection"
David Rieder, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Pebbles in the
Sand: A Las Vegan Allegory of Writing Toward Zero(s and Ones)"
Eric Leake, University of Denver, CO, "Implosions and Nostalgia in Las
Vegas"
Scot Barnett, Clemson University, SC, "A Vulgar Extravaganza: Las Vegas
and the Ontology of Style"
Writing Programs

K.10 	 Implications for Culturally-Relevant Writing Program
Administration: Revising Public Perceptions of Basic
Writers and Linguistic Diversity
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Jessica Barros, Ithaca College, NY, "Koladeras: An African-Centered Call and Response Field Dependent Writing Pedagogy and Curriculum"
David E. Kirkland, Michigan State University/New York University, East
Lansing, "Inventing Masculinity: A Conversation on Young Black
Males, Writing, and Tears"
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, "Positioning Students' Rights as Central to the Mission of University Writing
Programs"
Writing Programs

K.11 	 Expanding Our Community: The Duality of Concurrent
Enrollment
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College,
WA
Speakers: Miles McCrimmon, J. Sargeant Reynolds Community College,
Richmond, VA
Laura Gabrion, Macomb Community College, Warren, MI
Andy Anderson, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS

232

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 232

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.12 	 Teaching Rhetoric as Public Work
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Keith Walters, Portland State University, OR
Speakers: David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Helping
Struggling Towns and Regions to Reshape Their Rhetorical Image"
Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Using Rhetoric to Get to
Public Projects"
Roger Cherry, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Studying the Rhetorical Profile of Nonprofit Organizations"
Academic Writing

K.13 	 Reconciling Genres and Research in School and Work
Situational Contexts
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Grazzia Maria Mendoza, Zamorano University, Tegucigalpa
Speakers: Laura Wilder, University at Albany, SUNY, NY, "Genre Awareness vs. Acquisition, Genre Description vs. Prescription"
Sibusiso Ndlangamandla, University of South Africa, North Riding, "When
Police Become (Post)Graduate Students: A Linguistic and Contextual
Analysis of Research Proposals at an Open Distance Learning Institution"
Hayat Messekher, Ecole Normale Superieure de Bouzareah, Alger, "When
Genre Theory Meets Linguistic Theory to Serve L2 Academic Writers in
an EFL Context"
Basic Writing

K.14 	 Implementing the Guiding Principles of the CCCC
Position Statement on Writing Assessment: Lessons
Learned from the CUNY Assessment Test of Writing
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Raymond Moy, City University of New York, NY
Speakers: Raymond Moy, City University of New York, NY, "The Rubric
is the Key"
Frederick DeNaples, City University of New York, NY, "Engage Faculty"
Suan Young, City University of New York, NY, "Improving Teaching and
Learning"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 233

233

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.15 	 The Digital Rhetorician as an Agent of Social Change
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Jim Ridolfo, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Aimee Knight, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA, "The
New Rules of Community Engagement"
Douglas Eyman, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Digital Rhetorics
on The Hill: Social Media and Information Flows between the Government and Its Citizens"
Tim Lockridge, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA, "Texts and
Contexts: Intellectual Property Law, Network Literacies, and Circulation"
Academic Writing

K.16 	 The Public Work of Writing, Seeing, and Reading:
Composition Sources as Sites of Contention and
Social Change
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Bradford Hincher, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Purna Banerjee, Millikin University, Decatur, IL, "Ways of Seeing: The Personal-Political Interstices of Autoethnographic Writing Instruction through Viewing Political Documentaries"
Erin Sagerson, Weatherford College, Decatur, TX, "Writing about (Public)
Work: The Proletarian Literary Movement and Contemporary Composition"
Brian Fehler, Tarleton State University, Fort Worth, TX, "When the First
Word is the Last Word: Spike Lee, Katrina, and the Truncation of Transformation"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.17 	 And So We Meet Again: A Classroom Approach to
Uniting Literature and Rhetoric
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Rachael Zeleny, University of Delaware, Newark
Speakers: Rachael Zeleny, University of Delaware, Newark, "From the
Page to the Pulpit: Rhetoric, Public Women and the Nineteenth-Century
Novel"
Andrew Karr, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Literature in Composition, or Rhetoric in Literature?: An Example from a Gen. Ed. Literature
Course"
Kerry Hasler-Brooks, University of Delaware, Newark, "Literature, Rhetoric, and Textuality: Reconsidering Graduate Studies in English"

234

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 234

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

K.18 	 The WPA Outcomes Statement and the Pursuit of
Localism
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Edward White, University of Arizona
Speakers: Norbert Elliot, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,
"Localism, Writing Assessment, and Contemporary Validation Practice"
KJ Peters, Loyola Marymount University, Los Angeles, CA, "Dialogue:
Inter-Institutional Local Assessment of Student Writing"
Diane Kelly-Riley, Washington State University, Pullman, "Validational Inquiry through the Backdoor"
Lynda Haas, University of California Irvine, "Dialogue: Inter-Institutional
Local Assessment of Student Writing"
Theory

K.19 	 Digital Literacy
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Donna Evans, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande
Speakers: Leslie Mackey, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort
Wayne, "From Walls to Paper: Defining Design Literacy and Establishing Textual Meaning through Spatial Manipulation"
Pearce Durst, University of Montevallo, AL, "The Serious Work of Play:
Ludic Feminism and Digital Composition"
Leslie Bradshaw, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Getting Read in
the Attention Economy: The Digital Subjectivities of Successful Food
Bloggers"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.20 	 Interviews, Portraiture, and Play: Exploring Students'
Experiences in the Teaching of Writing
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Yvonne Wood, Purdue University Calumet, IN
Speakers: Yvonne Wood, Purdue University Calumet, "Promoting Play:
Reintroducing Play and Experimentation in the Composition Classroom"
Laura Ellis-Lai, Texas State University-San Marcos, "Portraiture Writing:
A Research Methodology that Values First Generation FYC Students'
Lived Experiences"
Michael Moghtader, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "The
Interview as 'Signature' Genre and Assignment in Writing Studies"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 235

235

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

K.21 	 The Stories We Tell: Reframing Instructional and
Institutional Identities
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Bonnie Lenore Kyburz, Utah Valley University, Provo
Speakers: Christina Bethel, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC,
"Creating Student Success? An Exploration of How Composition and
Technical Communication Researchers Can Overcome Negative Instructor Identity Framing and Performance in the NC Community College System"
Deirdre Carney, Idaho State University, Pocatello, "Location, Location,
Location: The Importance of Institutional Placement of Technical and
Professional Writing Programs"
Jennifer Foradori, Idaho State University, Pocatello, "Location, Location,
Location: The Importance of Institutional Placement of Technical and
Professional Writing Programs"
Robert Frederick, High Point, NC, "Science Writing 2.0: Telling Important
Stories in a Noisy Age"
Community, Civic & Public

K.22 	 Conflict Discourses in Public Deliberations
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Jessie Richards, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Jessie Richards, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Discursive
Constructions of National Identity, Rape, and Conflict"
Brian Rogers, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Provoking Questions of
Identity and Desire: An Ontological Approach to HIV/AIDS Prevention"
Institutional and Professional

K.23 	 Composing Roles for Scholars, Teachers, and
Organizations in Policy Debates
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Scott Wible, University of Maryland, University Park
Speakers: Dahliani Reynolds, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI,
"Changing the Conversation: Composition, NEH Seminars, and Going
Public"
Scott Wible, University of Maryland, University Park, "Foreign Language
Lessons on Policymaking"
Miles Myers, Institute for Standards, Curricula, and Assessments, Los Angeles, CA, "The Three Requirements for Going Public: Organization,
Professionalization, and Action-Oriented Genres"
Respondent: Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO

236

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 236

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.24 	 Stakes, Stakeholders, and Freshman Composition:
Communicating Our Programs to Multiple Audiences
Capri 116, First Floor

Chair: Erica Jansen, University of Delaware, Newark
Speakers: Jane Wessel, University of Delaware, Newark, "Appealing to
Consumers: How We Communicate with Prospective Students"
Elizabeth Hillaker Downs, University of Delaware, Newark, "Beyond Consumers: Sharing (or Not) Visions of Freshman Composition with Stakeholders"
Erica Jansen, University of Delaware, Newark, "Can You Hear Me? Access
Points and Audience in Freshman Composition Communications"
History

K.25 	 Cooking, Botany, and Journalism: Historical Sites of
Feminist Rhetorics
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Kuechenmeister, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Grace Wetzel, Wake Forest University, Raleigh, NC, "Winifred
Black's 'Little Jim' Campaign: The Role of Journalism in Late Nineteenth-Century Rhetorical Education"
Henrietta Shirk, Montana Tech of The University of Montana, Butte, "Feminist Rhetoric from the Periphery of Botany: Nineteenth-Century American Women Plant Collectors"
Elizabeth Kuechenmeister, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Once
Around the Pan: Cooking Measurements in the Women's Rhetorical
Tradition"
Community, Civic & Public

K.26 	 Finding the Words Together: Interrogating the Deficit
Model of Literacy
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Lauren Bowen, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: Lauren Bowen, Michigan Technological University, Houghton,
"Lifelong Literacy: A Case for Intergenerational Literacy Classrooms"
Elisabeth Miller, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "More than Words: Rethinking Literacy and/or Deficit through Aphasia"
Yu-Kyung Kang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Undoing
Ideologies, Reconstructing Identities: Korean Student Writing Workshops"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 237

237

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.27 	 Re-envisioning Reason's Ethos in Public Works
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Dana Elder, Eastern Washington University, Cheney
Speakers: Carrie Bates, SUNY Potsdam, "Theoretical Challenges to the
Faith-Reason Binary"
Justin Young, Eastern Washington University, Spokane, "Bridging Binaries: The Pathos of Public Discourse and the Logos of the Academy"
Dana Elder, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, "The Rational Rhetoric of Faith"
Jose Cortez, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Opening the Binaries of Ethos
with Jim Corder and Kenneth Burke"
Basic Writing

K.28 	 Navigating the Academic Lingo: Language and
Difference in Basic Writing
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Deborah Teague, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Mwangi Chege, University of Cincinnati-Blue Ash, OH, "Navigating the Terrain of Academic Discourse as an African American Basic
Writer: Teachers as Co-Laborers by Adapting A Dialogic and Culturally
Responsive Classroom Management Pedagogy Approach"
Sarah Stanley, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, "Tajada's Whisper: Micro,
Meso, and Macro Levels of a Parenthetical Limit Situation"
Meredith Singleton, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Exploring the Vernacular Literacy of Community College Students"
Dhruba Neupane, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada,
"'Mainstreaming' Basic Writing Today: Possibilities and Challenges"
Community, Civic & Public

K.29 	 Oral Histories as Public Work: A Community
Publishing Experiment in Rural Pennsylvania
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Laurie Cella, Shippensburg University, PA
Speakers: Julie Lark, AmeriCorps Vista Program, Shippensburg, PA, "Oral
Histories in the Composition Classroom: What Students Gain by Empathetic Listening"
Laurie Cella, Shippensburg University, PA, "Adult Learners Narrating
Their Stories: Oral History as a Means Toward Rhetorical Confidence"
Marie Steinbacher, LIU12 Franklin County Literacy Council, Chambersburg, PA, "Literacy Activism as Public Work: An AmeriCorps Vista Perspective"

238

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 238

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.30 	 Mapping Rhetorical Strategies in the Composition of
Public Memory and Identity
Skybox 201, Second Floor

Chair: Ersula Ore, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Kenneth Ladenburg, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Rhetorical Memory Making in The Citizens' Council, 1955–1957"
Yazmin Lazcano-Pry, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Protest as Memorialization in Mexico City's Zócalo"
Clarissa Bonner, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Touring the Prairie:
Constructing the Official Memory of Willa Cather"
Community, Civic & Public

K.31 	 A Critical Lens on Service-Learning
Skybox 202, Second Floor

Chair: Cynthia (Cindy) Gomez, Hodges University, Naples, FL
Speakers: James Anderson, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Problematic and Productive Places: Critical Place-Based Pedagogy in College Composition"
Veronica House, University of Colorado Boulder, "Food, Composition, and
Service-Learning: Connecting Students to Grassroots Community Initiatives"
Jennifer Jeanfreau, Loyola University of New Orleans, LA, "Is Service
Learning a Means of Overcoming or Reinforcing Prejudices?"
Alexis Ramsey, Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, FL, "Writing for Social
Change: Critical Reflection, Service Learning, and the Composition
Course"
Academic Writing

K.32 	 The Writing Center as Public Space: Developing
Writing Identities Across Disciplines
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Justin Bain, Colorado University, Denver
Speakers: Caitrin Blake, Colorado University, Denver, "Drafting in Public:
Audience Awareness for WAC Students"
Justin Bain, Colorado University, Denver, "Stranged Discourses: Writing
Centers as Public Sites for WAC/WID"
Jonathan Clark, Colorado University, Denver, "Writing Center as Interdisciplinary Space: Developing Writing Identities"
Selena Dickey, Colorado University, Denver, "Reflexive Thinking and Public Discourse"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 239

239

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.33 	 Student Histories Matter: Archival Research in the
Composition Classroom
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Kathryn Navickas, Syracuse University, NY, "Feminist Writing
Assignments: Locating Student Histories in the Archives"
Laura Michael Brown, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"Community as 'Text': Teaching Archival Research for Civic Engagement"
Lavina Ensor, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Making and
Telling Stories: How Digital Archive Projects Help Students"
Research

K.34 	 Designing a Multi-Institutional Cross-Disciplinary
Study in Information Literacy
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Rachael Geary, Texas Woman's University, Denton
Speakers: Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "First I'll Go to Google: Insight into Student Search Habits from
the LILAC Project"
Janice Walker, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Report from the
LILAC Project: Designing a Study of Student Information-Seeking Behaviors"
Eleanor Haynes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Navigating Institutional Review Board Approval for a Multi-Institutional Cross-Disciplinary Study"
Institutional and Professional

K.35	 Building, Analyzing, and Sustaining Writing Programs
in the U.S.
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Yuko Itatsu, University of Tokyo, Japan
Speakers: Yuko Itatsu, University of Tokyo, Japan, "Aiming High: Constructing a Native Level English Curriculum for International Students
in Japan"
Minal Singh, University of Texas, El Paso, "Making a Virtuous Argument
for FYC Visibility: Technology Aids the WPA"
Susan Ryan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "The Writer Dissolves in the University: Academic Conventions and Liberatory Agendas
in First-Year English"

240

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 240

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

K.36 	 Charisma Studies, Cognitive Studies, and the
Composing Brain
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Molly Daniel, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL
Speakers: Carmen Christopher Caviness, Meredith College, Greensboro,
NC, "Meeting of the Minds: Extended Cognition and the Public Space
of the Composition Classroom"
Kathryn Wozniak, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "Making the 'Composing Brain' Public: Raising Awareness of Cognitivist Composition Research in Psychology, Neuroscience, and HCI (and Vice Versa)"
Thomas Reynolds Jr., Northwestern State University of Louisiana, Natchitoches, "Contemporary Charisma Studies: Toward a New Rhetoric of
Elocution?"
Information Technologies

K.37 	 Reporting on Best Practices in Online Writing
Instruction (OWI): Six-Year Research Results from
the CCCC Committee for Best Practices in OWI
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Leslie Olsen, Bellevue University, Everett, WA, "Administrative
and Training Issues"
Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Riverton, NJ, "Pedagogy Theories and
Strategies for OWI"
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington Tacoma, "Accessibility Issues in
OWI"
Diane Martinez, Utah State University, Logan, "Student Preparation for
OWI"
Beth Hewett, University of Maryland University College, Adelphi, MD;
CCCC Committee Best Practices in OWI, "Framing the Best Practices
in OWI Report"

K.38 	 Think-Tank for Newcomers Developing Papers and
Sessions for CCCC 2014
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair: Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Lexington, VA

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 241

241

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC Awards/
Recognition Reception
Grande Ballroom A, First Floor
5:00–6:30 p.m.
Chair: Howard Tinberg, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, Bristol Community
College, Fall River, MA
At this reception we announce the winners of the 2013 Outstanding Book Award,
The James Berlin Memorial Outstanding Dissertation Award, The Braddock Award,
the Award for best article in TETYC, the Nell Ann Pickett , and others. Past CCCC
Chairs, distinguished guests, and international participants will be recognized. A
light reception follows. Please take the time to come celebrate with your colleagues.

AWARDS PRESENTATIONS
OUTSTANDING BOOK AWARD
This award is presented to the author(s) or editor(s) of a book making an outstanding
contribution to composition and communication studies. Books are evaluated for
scholarship or research and for applicabilitly to the study and teaching of composition and communication.

Outstanding Book Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Deborah W. Minter, University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Melody A. Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Barbara E. L'Eplattenier, University Of Arkansas-Little Rock
Shevaun E. Watson, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire

Previous Award Winners
2012 	
		
		
		
2011 	
2010 	

David Fleming, From Form to Meaning: Freshman Composition and the 	
Long Sixties, 1957-1974
Bruce Horner, Min-Zhan Lu, and Paul Kei Matsuda, Cross-Language 		
Relations in Composition
Xiaoye You, Writing in the Devil's Tongue: A History of English Composition in China
David Gold, Rhetoric at the Margins: Revising the History of Writing Instruction in American Colleges, 1873-1947

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 243

243

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2009 	
		
2008 	

Charles Bazerman, Handbook of Research on Writing: Society, School, Individual, Text
John M. Duffy, Writing from These Roots: Literacy in a Hmong-American
Community
Sharon Crowley, Toward a Civil Discourse: Rhetoric and Fundamentalism

For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
oba

JAMES BERLIN MEMORIAL OUTSTANDING
DISSERTATION AWARD
Renamed to honor James Berlin, this award recognizes a graduate whose dissertation
improves the educational process through research or scholarly inquiry or adds to the
body of knowledge in composition studies.

Berlin Outstanding Dissertation Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge
Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
Charlotte A. Hogg, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth
Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Meredith J. Lee, Leeward Community College, HI

Previous Award Winners
2012 	 Ana Maria Wetzl, "L2 Writing in the L1 Composition Course: A Model for
Promoting Linguistic Tolerance"
2011 	 Carolyn J. Fulford, "Writing Across the Curriculum Program Development
as Ideological and Rhetorical Practice"
2010 	 Risa Applegarth, "Other Grounds: Popular Genres and the Rhetoric of Anthropology, 1900-1940"
2009 	 Eric D. Turley, "The Scientific Management of Writing and the Residue of
Reform"
2008 	 Katherine E. Tirabassi, "Revisiting the Current-Traditional Era: Innovations in Writing Instruction at the University of New Hampshire, 19401949"
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
berlin

THE RICHARD BRADDOCK AWARD
The Richard Braddock Award is presented to the author of the outstanding article
on writing or the teaching of writing in the CCCC journal, College Composition

244

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 244

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

and Communication, during the year ending December 31 before the annual CCCC
spring convention. The award was created to honor the memory of Richard Braddock, University of Iowa. Richard Braddock was an extraordinary person and teacher who touched the lives of many people in ways that this special award established
in his name can only suggest.

Braddock Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Anis S. Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University, Tempe
Teresa M. Redd, Howard University, Washington, D.C.
Rochelle (Shelley) Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Christopher J. Thaiss, University of California at Davis

Previous Award Winners
2012 	 Brandy Nalani McDougall and Georganne Nordstrom, "Ma ka Hana ka 'Ike
(In the Work Is the Knowledge): Kaona as Rhetorical Action," September
2011
2011 	 Anne-Marie Pedersen, "Negotiating Cultural Identities through Language:
Academic English in Jordan," December 2010
2010 	 Shevaun E. Watson, "Good Will Come of This Evil": Enslaved Teachers
and the Transatlantic Politics of Early Black Literacy," September 2009
2009 	 Ellen Barton, "Further Contributions from the Ethical Turn in Composition/
Rhetoric: Analyzing Ethics in Interaction," June 2008
2008 	 Michael Carter, "Ways of Knowing, Doing, and Writing in the Disciplines,"
February 2007
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
braddock

OUTSTANDING DISSERTATION AWARD IN
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
This award recognizes a dissertation in Technical Communication whose research is
original, makes a contribution to the field, uses a sound methodological approach,
demonstrates awareness of the existing research in the area studied, and demonstrates an overall high quality of writing.

Outstanding Dissertation Award in Technical Communication
Committee
Chair: 	 William Banks, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
		
Huiling Ding, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
		
Angela Haas, Illinois State University, Normal

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 245

245

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

		
		

Carlos Salinas, University of Texas at El Paso
J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando

Previous Award Winners
2012 	 Joy Santee
2011 	 Colleen Derkatch
2010 	 Rebekka Andersen
2009 	 Jonathan Buehl
2008 	 Lara Varpio
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://

TECHNICAL and scientific COMMUNICATION
awards
This award recognizes outstanding books and articles in technical and scientific communication in six categories: Best Book, Best Original Collection of Essays, Best
Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research, Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies, Best Article on Philosophy or Theory, and Best
Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum.

Technical and Scientific Communication Awards Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Michelle F. Eble, East Carolina University, Greenville
Stuart Blythe, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Heather Shearer, University of California, Santa Cruz
Stewart Whittemore, Auburn University, AL

Previous Award Winners
2012
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Brad Mehlenbacher, Instruction and technology: Designs for everyday learning
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Margaret Hundleby and Jo Allen, Assessment in Technical and Professional Communication
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Edward A. Malone, "'Chrysler's 'Most Beautiful Engineer': Lucille J. Pieti in the Pillory of Fame." Technical Communication Quarterly,
19:2, 2010, 144-183
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Clay Spinuzzi, "Secret Sauce and Snake Oil: Writing
Monthly Reports in a Highly Contingent Environment." Written Communication,
27:4, 2010, 363-409

246

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 246

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication: Jason Swarts, "Recycled Writing: Assembling Actor Networks From Reusable
Content." Journal of Business and Technical Communication, 24:2, 2010, 127-163
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Natasha Artemeva and Janna Fox, "Awareness Versus Production: Probing
Students' Antecedent Genre Knowledge." Journal of Business and Technical Communication, 24:4, 2010, 476-515
2010
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Carol Siri Johnson, The
Language of Work: Technical Communication at Lukens Steel, 1810-1925
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Christina Hass, Written Communication, Special issue on Writing and Medicine,
26(3-4) July-October 2009, 215-396
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Catherine Schryer, Elena Afros, Marcellina Mian, Marlee Spafford, & Lorelei Lingard, "The Trial of the Expert Witness: Negotiating Credibility in Child Abuse Correspondence," Written Communication, 26(3), July 2009:
215-246
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Christa Teston, "A Grounded Investigation of Genred
Guidelines in Cancer Care Deliberations," Written Communication, 26(3), July
2009: 320-348
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
S. Scott Graham, "Agency and the Rhetoric of Medicine: Biomedical Brain Scans
and the Ontology of Fibromyalgia," Technical Communication Quarterly, 18(4), Fall
2009: 376-404
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Rachel Spilka, "Practitioner Research Instruction: A Neglected Curricular Area
in Technical Communication Undergraduate Programs," Journal of Business and
Technical Communication, 23(2), April 2009: 216-237
2009
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Jason Swarts. Together
with Technology: Writing Review, Enculturation and Technological Mediation. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company, Inc. 2008.
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
No award given.
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: No award given.
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Stuart Blythe, Jeffrey T. Grabill, & Kirk Riley. "Action Research and Wicked Environmental Problems: Exploring Appropriate Roles
for Researchers in Professional Communication," Journal of Business and Technical
Communication, 22(3), (July 2008): 272-298.
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 247

247

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Jason Swarts. "Information Technologies as Discursive Agents: Methodological Implications for the Empirical Study of Knowledge Work," Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 38(4), (2008): 301-329.
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Deanna P. Dannels & Kelly Norris Martin. "Critiquing Critiques: A Genre
Analysis of Feedback Across Novice to Expert Design Studios," Journal of Business
and Technical Communication, 22(2), (April 2008): 135-158.
2008
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Joseph E. Harmon and Alan
G. Gross. Eds. The Scientific Literature: A Guided Tour. Chicago, IL: University of
Chicago Press, 2007.
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Mark Zachry and Charlotte Thralls. Eds. Communicative Practices in Workplaces
and the Professions: Cultural Perspectives on the Regulation of Discourse and Organizations. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company, Inc., 2007.
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Neal Lerner. "Laboratory Lessons for Writing and Science." Written Communication. 24:3 (2007), 191-222.
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Gabriella Rundblad. "Impersonal, General, and Social:
The Use of Metonymy Versus Passive Voice in Medical Discourse." Written Communication. 24:3 (2007), 250-277.
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
Susan Hagan. "Visual/Verbal Collaboration in Print: Complementary Differences,
Necessary Ties, and an Untapped Rhetorical Opportunity." Written Communication.
24:1 (2007), 49-83.
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Michael Carter, Miriam Ferzli, and Eric N. Wiebe. "Writing to Learn by Learning to Write in the Disciplines." Journal of Business and Technical Communication.
21:3 (2007), 278-302.
For a listing of winners prior to 2007, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
techsci

WRITING PROGRAM CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
This award program, established in 2004, honors up to 20 writing programs a year. 
Programs must successfully demonstrate that their program meets the following criteria: it imaginatively addresses the needs and opportunities of its students, instructors, and locale; offers exemplary ongoing professional development for faculty of
all ranks, including adjunct/contingent faculty; treats contingent faculty respectfully,
humanely, and professionally; uses current best practices in the field; uses effective,
ongoing assessment and placement procedures; models diversity and/or serves diverse communities; has appropriate class size; and has an administrator (chair, director, coordinator, etc.) with academic credentials in writing.
248

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 248

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2012–2013 Writing Program Certificate of Excellence Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

David Kirkland, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
John M. Duffy, University of Notre Dame, IN
Julie L. Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Elenore Long, Arizona State University, Tempe

Previous Certificate Winners
2011-2012
Appalachian State University, Vertical Writing Curriculum
Montclair State University, First-Year Writing Program
St. Louis Community College, ESL Program
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Undergraduate Rhetoric Program
University of South Florida, First-Year Writing Composition Program
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Writing Program
The University of Texas at El Paso, First-Year Composition
2010-2011
Binghamton University, State University of New York, First-Year Writing
University of Connecticut, University Writing Center
Wheaton College, Writing Across the Curriculum Program
2009-2010
Louisiana State University, Communication across the Curriculum Program
2008–2009
North Carolina State University, First-Year Writing Program
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Writing Program
Washington State University, Writing Program
2007–2008
The University of Denver, Writing Program
University of Toronto, Scarborough, Writing Centre
2006–2007
Ball State University, Writing Program
Michigan Technological University, Writing Center
Purdue University, Introductory Composition
Swarthmore College, Writing Associates Program
University of Toronto, Office of English Language and Writing Support
For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
writingprogramcert

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 249

249

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC TRIBAL COLLEGE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP
In March 2003, the Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC)
initiated a new program, the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Program. The Tribal
College Faculty Fellowship offers financial aid to selected faculty members currently
working at tribally controlled colleges to attend the CCCC Conference.  This year
we will be awarding up to four Tribal College Faculty Fellowships in the amount of
$750 each. With this Fellowship, CCCC hopes to create new opportunities for Tribal
College Faculty members to become involved in CCCC and for CCCC to carry out
its mission of serving as a truly representative national advocate for language and
literacy education. Applicants are asked to submit a letter describing who they are as
teachers and what they teach at their tribal college, what their research interests are,
and what they hope to gain from the experience of attending CCCC (how it could
help in their teaching or research). A selection committee including American Indian
Caucus members reviews applications for the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship.
Fellowships are awarded based on overall quality of the application letter.

Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Kimberli Lee, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Casie Cobos, Texas A&M University, College Station
Amanda Morris, Kutztown University, PA
Patricia Trujillo, Northern New Mexico College, Española

Previous Award Winners
2012 	

Kate Bertin, Jeanne Sokolowski

2011	

Eric Jurgens

2010	

Christie Cooke, Jennifer Ann Owens

2009	

Sara Knight, Ryan Winn

2008	

Nathan Jenkins, Haskell Indian Nationals University

For a listing of winners prior to 2008, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
tribalcollegefellow

250

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 250

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC advancement of knowledge award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances writing studies.

Advancement of Knowledge Committee
Jeffrey Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Shevaun Watson, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire

Previous Award Winners
2012	

Mya Poe, Neal Lerner, and Jennifer Craig, Learning to Communicate in
Science and Engineering: Case Studies from MIT

CCCC research impact award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances the mission of the organization
or the needs of the profession.

Research Impact Committee
Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Huiling Ding, Clemson University, SC
Krista Ratcliffe, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI

Previous Award Winners
2012 	

Christopher Schroeder, Diverse by Design: Literacy Education in Multicultural Institutions

CCCC luiz antonio marcuschi travel awards
Established in 2011, this award provides two $1,000 travel reimbursement awards to
scholars from Mexico, Central, or South America who have papers accepted for presentation at the CCCC Convention. Selection of the winners is made by the CCCC
Program Chair and a panel of judges selected from the Stage II program reviewers.

Previous Award Winners
2012 	

Federico Navarro, Désirée Motta Roth

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 251

251

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG.01 	Asian/Asian American Caucus
	
Capri 104, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University, PA
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing

FSIG.02 	 Black Caucus
	
Capri 105, First Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
David E. Kirkland, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Secretary of the Black Caucus: Rhea Lathan, Florida State University,
Tallahassee

FSIG.03 	 American Indian Caucus
	
Capri 106, First Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, Brockton, MA
Resa Cran Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing

FSIG.04 	 Latino Caucus
	
Capri 107, First Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge
Bobbi Houtchens, Arroyo Valley High School, San Bernardino, CA

FSIG.05 	Queer Caucus
	
Capri 108, First Floor
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, College Station
Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA
Scott Aichinger, University of Nebraska, Omaha

FSIG.06 	Best Practices in Online Writing Instruction: Seeking
Feedback from CCCC Members on the Completed
Best Practices Report
	
Capri 109, First Floor
	

Chair: Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University, Newport News, VA

252

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 252

1/24/13 11:13 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.07 	Creative Writing Study and Artistic Practice
	
Capri 110, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Ben Ristow, University of Arizona, Tucson
Benjamin Miller, CUNY Grad Center, Bronx

FSIG.08 	Graduate Student Forum Special Interest Group
	
Capri 111, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Laurie A. Pinkert, Purdue University, Lafayette
Lavinia Hirsu, Indiana University, Bloomington

FSIG.09 	In Their Words: Student Writing in the Creative
Nonfiction/Composition Classroom
	
Capri 112, First Floor
	

Chair: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA

FSIG.10 	International Writing Centers Association:
The Public Work of Writing Centers
	
Capri 113, First Floor
	

Chair: Kevin Dvorak, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale,
FL

FSIG.11 	Independent Writing Units
	
Capri 114, First Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State University, Kearney, NE
Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Mesa

FSIG.12 	Labor Caucus Special Interest Group
	
Capri 115, First Floor
	
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Jes Hodgson, University of Missouri-Columbia
Vandana Gavaskar, Elizabeth City State University, Virginia Beach, VA
Steve Fox, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis

FSIG.13 	Meeting of the International Network of Writingacross-the-Curriculum Programs
	
Capri 116, First Floor
	

Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California Davis

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 253

253

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.14 	Rhetoric and Christian Tradition
	
Skybox 206, Second Floor
	

Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

FSIG.15 	Special Interest Group: English Education and
Composition Connections
	
Skybox 207, Second Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Mark Letcher, Purdue Univ. Calumet, Hammond, IN
Gretchen Rumohr-Voskuil, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, MI
Elizabeth Brockman, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant

FSIG.16 	Studio Special Interest Group
	
Skybox 208, Second Floor
	

Chair: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC

FSIG.17 	Teaching Adult Writers in Diverse Settings SIG
	
Capri 103, First Floor
	
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Karen Uehling, Boise State University, ID
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Pt. Pleasant, NJ
Christine Photinos, National University, San Diego, CA
Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary's University, Saint Paul, MN

FSIG.18 	Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy Special
Interest Group
	
Skybox 209, Second Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga

FSIG.19 	Writing with Current, Former, and Future Members
of the Military
	
Skybox 210, Second Floor
	
	
	

Co-Chairs: Robert Hazard, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL
D. Alexis Hart, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, VA
Sandra Jang, English Instructor, New York, NY

FSIG.20 	Transnational Composition SIG
	
Skybox 211, Second Floor
	

Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY

254

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 254

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.21 	 Science and Writing
	
Skybox 212, Sexcond Floor
	
	

Co-Chairs: William FitzGerald, Rutgers University-Camden, NJ
Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University, Columbus

FSIG.22 	 SIG on Undergraduate Research in Rhetoric and
Composition
	
Skybox 201, Second Floor
	

Chair: Michael Zerbe, York College of Pennsylvania

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 255

255

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Friday, 6:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.

Friday Evening Events
TYCA Talks
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
The Twentieth Annual Poetry Forum
Capri 104, First Floor
7:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.
The Poetry Forum: The Twenty-Fifth Annual Exultation of Larks will be held on
Friday, 7:30–10:30 p.m. This forum has become a valued annual gathering for CCCC
poets and friends of poetry. Those who write should bring original material to read
for about five minutes. Those who enjoy the company of poets should come to listen,
respond and share in the pleasures of the occasion. Poet readers should contact Mary
Minock (Language and Literature Department, Madonna University, 36600 Schoolcraft Rd., Livonia, MI 48150, mminock@madonna.edu) if they have questions.

AA
Skybox 201, Second Floor
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
ALANON
Skybox 206, Second Floor
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.

256

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 256

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–2:30 p.m.

Saturday, March 16
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–2:30 p.m.
Royale Pavilion Ballroom, First Floor
Exhibits, 10:00 a.m.–1:00 p.m.
Royale Pavilion Ballroom, Lobby Level
Computer Connection/Digital Posters
Top of the Riviera South
TWO-YEAR COLLEGE SATURDAY PROGRAM
SPONSORED BY THE TWO-YEAR COLLEGE ENGLISH
ASSOCIATION (TYCA)
TWO-YEAR COLLEGE ENGLISH ASSOCIATION ANNUAL
BREAKFAST AND AWARDS
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.
Admission is by advance registration only.

TYCA Executive Committee Meeting
Monaco Room 13, Monaco Tower, Second Floor
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 257

257

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

tyca fame award
The Award acknowledge the best mention of the two-year college appearing in any
media during the previous year. The award gives credit to those reporters, writers,
filmmakers, and others who seek out and publicize exemplary students, faculty, programs, campuses, and/or recognize the two-year college system. For more information, please visit: http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/fame.
	 Winners are to be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

Fame Award Committee
Chair:	 Sterling Warner, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Joy Barber, Montana State University, Billings
Carmen Carrasquillo, Miramar College, San Diego, CA
Michael Dinielli, Chaffey College, Alta Loma, CA
Bruce Henderson, Fullerton College, CA
Martha Henning, Portland Community College, OR
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

Previous Award Winners
2012	
2011 	
2010 	
2009 	
	
2008 	

Grace Chen, Community College Review, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh
Zach Miners, US News and World Report, October 7, 2010, "Obama Touts
Community Colleges"
Scott Jaschik, Inside Higher Ed, March 18, 2009, "College College Surge"
Dr. Jill Biden, Northern Virginia Community College, VA
Honorable Mention: Peter Schworm, Boston Globe, January 21, 2009,
"Brush with Destitution Fuels a Desire to Succeed"
Gail Mellow, President, LaGuardia Community College, NY

diana hacker tyca outstanding programs
in english awards for two-year teachers
and colleges
The awards are given annually to honor two-year teachers and their colleges for exemplary programs that enhance students' language learning, helping them to achieve
their college, career, and personal goals. For more information, please visit: http://
www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/programs.
	 Winners are to be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

258

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 258

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

Outstanding Programs Award Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		

Jeff Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ
Joel Henderson, Chattanooga State Tech Community College, TN
Elissa Caruth, Oxnard College, CA
Lois Power, Fullerton College, CA

Previous Award Winners
2012 	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
2011	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Reaching Across Borders
"The Program of Global Distinction"
Howard Community College, Columbia, MD and Community College of
Baltimore County, MD
"Interdisciplinary Service-Learning: Making Connections in Art and Writing for Community Concerns"
Kenaij Peninsula College, Soldotna, AK
Honorable Mention
"Community College–High School Portfolio Connection"
Northeast Iowa Community College, Peosta
Fostering Student Success
"Increasing Achievement and Program Completion through Curricula Reform"
Passaic County Community College, Paterson, NJ
Reaching Across Borders
"The College-Level Writing Collaborative-Navigating the Gap"
Johnson & Wales University, Providence, RI
Honorable Mention
"Reaching Across Borders: The Benefits of Blending Full and Part-Time
Faculty"
Madison Area Technical College, WI
Honorable Mention
"Service Learning and Learning Service: Technical Writing Classes Partner
with Farmers' Markets
Zane State College, Zanesville, OH)
Fostering Student Success
"Step UP: Improving Student Success and Retention and Transforming the
College Culture"
Howard Community College, Columbia, MD
Honorable Mention
"Basic Writing/English 100"
Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA)
Enhancing Developmental Education
Honorable Mention
"Rural Comp"
Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College, Tifton, GA

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 259

259

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

2010	
		
		
		
		
		

Enhancing Developmental Education
"The Accelerated Learning Program (ALP)"
Community College of Baltimore County, Baltimore, Maryland
Honorable Mention
"Portfolio Assessment and Mentoring Program"
Camden County College, Blackwood, New Jersey

2009	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 1: Reaching Across Borders
"Writing in the Disciplines"
Montgomery College, Takoma Park, MD
"SLCC Community Writing Center"
Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT
Honorable Mention
"Ready or Not Writing"
Minnesota State Community and Technical College, Fergus Falls, MN
Special Acknowledgment/Most Unique Initiative
"Intercultural Literacy through Reflection: Rural Students Meet the Urban
Experience"
State Fair Community College, Sedalia, MO

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 2: Fostering Student Success
"ESSAI The College of DuPage Anthology of Academic Writing Across the
Curriculum"
College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL
Honorable Mention
"Building Community Online: Discussion Boards in a Two-Year College
Online Writing Center"
Century College, White Bear Lake, MN

		

Category 3: Enhancing Developmental Education
"Serving the Literacy Goals of At-Risk Students through an Integrated
Approach to Faculty Development and Course Design"
Kingsborough Community College, Brooklyn, NY
Honorable Mention
"Bursting the Bubble: Using Learning Communities to Create Authentic
College Learning and Instruction"
Front Range Community College, Westminster, CO

		
		

Category 4: Enhancing Literature and Cultural Arts
No Entries

2008 	
		
		

Category 1: Reaching across Borders
"The Arts in Ghana with Service Learning"
The Ohio State University Agricultural Technical Institute, Wooster, OH

		
		
		

260

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 260

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

		
		
		

Honorable Mention
"Washington Online Writing Lab (WOWL)"
Centralia College, WA

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 2: Fostering Student Success
"YVCC English Department Mid-Program Assessment"
Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Honorable Mention
"Increasing Agency and Collaboration through the Merging of SoTL and
Assessment
University of Wisconsin Colleges, Waukesha, WI

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 3: Enhancing Developmental Education
"Gateway to Success"
Santa Barbara City College, CA
Honorable Mention
"The W.R.I.T.E. Brush-up Course Program"
Nassau Community College, Garden City, NY

		
		
		
		
		
		

Category 4: Enhancing Literature and Cultural Arts
"Writing and Literature Program"
Borough of Manhattan Community College, New York, NY
Honorable Mention
"Women's Literature Read-In"
Lansing Community College, MI

these awards are presented at the cccc
awards/recognition reception on Friday
nell ann pickett service award
Presented by the Two-Year College English Association to an outstanding teacher
whose vision and voice have had a major impact on two-year college professionalism. For more information, please visit: http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/pickett.

Nell Ann Pickett Service Award Committee
Chair:	 Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Shelley Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 261

261

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

Previous Award Winners
2012 	
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	

Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT
Mike Matthews, Tarrant County College/NW Campus, Fort Worth, TX
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Judith "Jay" Wootten, Kent State University, Salem Campus, Salem, OH

the mark reynolds tetyc best article
award
The quarterly journal Teaching English in the Two-Year College selects each calendar year one article for its Best Article of the Year Award. Selection is based on
excellence in five areas: content, style, development/organization, value to readers,
and overall impression. For more information, please visit: http://www.ncte.org/tyca/
awards/tetycaward.
	 Jeff Sommers, Editor of TETYC, to present the award.

Best Article Award Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		

Gregory Shafer, Mott Community College, Flint, MI
Jill Kronstadt, Montgomery College, Germantown, MD
Justin Jory, Manitou Springs, CO
Teresa Thonney, Columbia Basin College, Pasco, WA

Previous Award Winners
2012 	
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	

Patrick Sullivan
Ann Del Principe
Holly Hassel and Joanne Baird Giordano
David Martins
Gregory Shafer

262

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 262

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

CCCC ANNUAL BUSINESS/TOWN MEETING
AND
CONCURRENT SESSIONS

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 263

263

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

ANNUAL BUSINESS/TOWN MEETING
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.

All members and newcomers of CCCC are invited to attend and vote at the business
meeting.
CCCC Chair: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
CCCC Associate Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River,
MA
CCCC Assistant Chair: Adam J. Banks, University of Kentucky, Lexington
CCCC Immediate Past Chair: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
CCCC Secretary: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
CCCC Executive Secretary/Treasurer: Kent Williamson, NCTE, Urbana, IL
CCCC Parliamentarian: Eric Bateman, San Juan College, Farmington, NM
Established Rules for Conduct of the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 All voting members should be properly identified, and only members in good
standing may vote in the business meeting.
2. 	 A quorum of seventy-five members of CCCC in good standing is required for the
transaction of business in this meeting.
3. 	 Anyone wishing the floor should go to a microphone and give his or her name
and institution when recognized by the chair.
4. 	 If procedural rules are adopted by a majority vote of the members present, a twothirds vote will be required to suspend or amend them.
5. 	 Members may offer for discussion and action a sense-of-the-house motion, as
specified in item 4 in the "Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions." Such
motions, if passed, will be broadcast to the members, not as an official CCCC
statement, but as the wish of the majority of the members voting at the Annual
Business Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or another appropriate CCCC body, and can become the substance of a resolution at the next annual convention.
6. 	 Sturgis's Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure applies on all questions of
procedure and parliamentary law not specified in the Constitution, Bylaws, or
other rules adopted by CCCC.
7. 	 The Parliamentarian interprets the rules on parliamentary procedures.
8. 	 A secret ballot will be ordered by a motion to vote by secret ballot and an affirmative vote of at least ten members.
Procedural Rules Proposed for Adoption at the Annual Business Meeting
In discussion of resolutions and all other items of business except sense-of the-house
motions:
a. 	 Three minutes will be allowed for each speaker each time.
b. 	 No one may speak a second time on a subject until all who wish to speak have
been heard.
264

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 264

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

c. 	 The presiding officer will attempt to provide a balance in recognizing pro and
con speakers. If there are no speakers opposing a motion under consideration, the
chair may ask the house to move immediately to a vote in order to expedite the
business.
d. 	 Discussion will be limited to no more than fifteen minutes (not including discussion of amendments) on any main motion or resolution; this time may be
extended in ten-minute increments by consent of the body.
e. 	 Discussion of an amendment to a motion or resolution will be limited to no more
than ten minutes; this time may be extended in six-minute increments by consent
of the body.
f. 	 Amendments to amendments will not be accepted, in order to avoid confusion.
In discussion of sense-of-the-house motions:
a. 	 To be considered for deliberation, a sense-of-the-house motion must be prepared
in writing, must not exceed 50 words, and must be submitted to the chair in three
copies before the call for the adoption of the agenda at the beginning of the business meeting. (Brief prefatory statements in explanation of the motion are not
part of the motion and need not be submitted in writing.)
b. 	 A sense-of-the-house motion may not be amended, except for editorial changes
acceptable to the mover.
c.	 Speakers on sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to two minutes each,
except by dispensation of the chair.
d. 	 Discussion of sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to ten minutes, except
by dispensation of the chair.
Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions at the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 A call for resolutions will appear in the February issue of College Composition
and Communication. Proposed resolutions received by the chair of the Resolutions Committee two weeks before the conference require the signature of
only five conference members; however, additional signatures are welcome as a
means of indicating the base of support for the resolution.
2.	 The function of the Resolutions Committee is to review all resolutions presented
and to prepare resolutions of its own in areas in which it or the Executive Committee believes conference action is needed. Special attention will be given to
including areas covered in sense-of-the-house motions passed at the last Annual
Business Meeting. In reviewing resolutions, the Resolutions Committee is responsible for combining all resolutions that duplicate one another in substance
and for editing all resolutions.
The Resolutions Committee will report all properly submitted resolutions to the
Annual Business Meeting with a recommendation for action.
	 Resolutions that call for conference action in the areas in which the CCCC Constitution assigns authority to the officers or the Executive Committee will be clearly
labeled as advisory to the officers or the Executive Committee.

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 265

265

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:00–5:00 p.m.

	 Resolutions of appreciation may be prepared by the CCCC officers and may be
presented by the Resolutions Committee.
	 The Resolutions Committee will hold an open meeting during the Special Interest
Group time period to clarify and discuss these resolutions with concerned conference members. It is especially urgent that the authors of resolutions or their delegates come to this meeting. Although no new resolutions may be added at this time,
members suggesting additional resolutions will be informed that they may introduce
sense-of-the-house motions at the Annual Business Meeting in accordance with the
rule given in item 4 below. The Resolutions Committee will also have a closed meeting after the open meeting to make such editorial and substantive changes as the
deliberations of the open meeting may suggest.
3. 	 As necessary, resolutions will be retyped so that complex changes will be incorporated into the copies of the resolutions distributed at the Annual Business
Meeting.
		 During the report of the Resolutions Committee at the Annual Business Meeting, one member of the Committee will read the "resolved" portion of each resolution and move its adoption. Adoption will require only a simple majority of
members present. Action will be taken on each resolution before the next resolution is presented.
		 The CCCC officers at their post-convention session will determine the dissemination of, and the action to be taken on, all resolutions adopted.
4. 	 Members may offer sense-of-the-house motions for discussion and action. Such
motions, if passed, will be announced to CCCC members, not as official CCCC
statements, but as the will of the majority of members at the Annual Business
Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or by another appropriate CCCC body, as well as become the substance
of a resolution at the next annual convention. In order to be considered, sense-ofthe-house motions of no more than 50 words must be presented in writing (three
copies) to the chair of the Annual Business Meeting before the adoption of the
agenda.

266

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 266

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.02 	 Writing in Science, Technologies, Mathematics, and
Engineering: Frameworks for Success for All Students
from High School to University and Beyond
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Pam Childers, Lesley University, Palisade, CO
Speakers: Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis, "A Science-Writing Culture in the Research University: Curricula, Collaborations, and
Student Opportunities"
Julie Reynolds, Duke University, Durham, NC, "The Basics of Writing to
Learn in Science: STEM to WAC on the Secondary Level"
Respondent: John Bean, Seattle University, WA
Research

L.03 	 The Public (Face) Work of Administration: A Case
Study of Six New Writing Center Directors
Skybox 204, Second Floor

Chair: Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Jackie Grutsch McKinney, Ball State University, Muncie, IN,
"Constructing a Public Face in Writing Center Administration"
Nicole Caswell, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, "Sketching the
Implications of New Writing Center Directors' Public and Private Work"
Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Uncovering the
Hidden Work of Writing Center Administration"
Theory

L.04 	 Compositional Expansion: De- and Re-Composing
Materialities
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland Baltimore County
Speakers: Erin Anderson, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Coercive Composing: Digital Voice and a Poetics of Public Confession"
Trisha Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Making Murder Matter"
Jody Shipka, University of Maryland Baltimore County, "Here and Now,
There and Then: Collaborating with the Dead"
Devon F. Ralston, Miami University, Oxford,, OH, "The Future Is Yesterday"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 269

269

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Academic Writing

L.05 	 The Visible Dissertation: Graduate Student as Writer and
Programmatic Efforts in the Dissertation Writing Institute
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Dina Karageorgos, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "An Unprecedented Creative Act: Dissertation Writing as Narration"
Louis Cicciarelli, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Dissertation Writers
and the Value of 'Not Knowing'"
Paul Barron, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Graduate Students' Perceptions of Support in Writing the Dissertation"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.06 	 New Media Instruction in the First-Year Writing Programs
at Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Carlos Salinas, University of Texas at El Paso, El Paso, TX
Speakers: Wendy Strain, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Rhetoric
in a Digital Age"
Romeo Garcia, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Reflections
on Integrating Multi-Media Instruction in Freshmen Composition at
TAMUCC"
Amanda Hartman, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, "Expanding the
Classroom: The Inclusion of Facebook in Freshman Composition"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.07 	 I Flap My Hands and You Unsheath Your Pocket DSM:
Rhetorics of Mental Disability and the Public Work of
Composition
Capri 103, First Floor
Chair: Tara Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Geneva Canino, University of Houston, TX
Margaret Price, Spelman College, Decatur, GA
Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, Ypsilanti
Research

L.08 	 Numbers Talk: Using Corpus Data to Guide Ethnographic
Inquiry
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Sarah Swofford, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Sarah Swofford, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Does This
Make Sense? Student Perceptions of Questions in Instructor Feedback"

270

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 270

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Christopher Parsons, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Gender, Language, and the Performance of Writing Assessment"
Justine Neiderhiser, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "'In Our Words':
Students Respond to Instructor Feedback"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.09 	 Weaving in New Threads: Craft Perspectives on Rhetoric
and Composition
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Kristin Prins, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Martha Webber, University of Puget Sound, WA "Crafting Value"
Kristin Ravel, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Crafting Subjectivity"
Kristin Prins, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "DIY Craft Practices "
Research

L.10 	 Too Legit to Quit: Refiguring "Writing Transitions" on a
Spectrum of Public Engagement
Skybox 205, Second Floor
Chair: Jessica Early, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Christina Saidy, Arizona State University, Tempe
Mark Hannah, Arizona State University, Tempe
Jessica Early, Arizona State University, Tempe
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.11 	 Scenario-Based Writing and the Question of Authenticity
in FYC
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Chidsey Dickson, Lynchburg College, VA
Speakers: Allison Brimmer, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale-Davie, FL, "Thinking with and Beyond the Binaries of Transactional Writing"
Alexandria Peary, Salem State University, Londonderry, NH, "Digital
Transactions and the Author(itative) Ethos"
June Johnson, Seattle University, WA, "Forging Rhetors and Informed Citizens: Inviting Students to Enter Public Arguments as Proxy Stakeholders
in an Inquiry-Based First-Year Writing Course"
Chidsey Dickson, Lynchburg College, VA, "Self-Styled Transactional Writing in FYC"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 271

271

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

L.12 	 When the Outside Looks In: Accountability, Assessment,
and Apprehension in a Technical College Setting
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Jay Johnson, Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI
Speakers: Kathryn Nordhaus, Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI,
"Technical College Outcomes Assessment: A Process"
Jay Johnson, Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI, "Technical College
Placement Test Assessment: A Study"
Katy J. Vopal, Gateway Technical College, Kenosha, WI, "Technical College Assessment Results: A Source of Validation and Concern"
Writing Programs

L.13 	 Face, Place, Space, Publics: Multiplicity and Writing
Centers
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Danielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Ezekiel Choffel, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "From
Citation Consumer to Citation Producer: Working with Students on
Source Citation in Multiple Genres in the Writing Center "
Gina DeNardi, Kent State University, OH, "Consulting with Document Design"
Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State University of Denver, CO, "The
Public Work of Writing Centers: Writing Centers as Literacy Sponsors"
Danielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Arguing for Document Design Considerations in Writing Center Consulting"
Information Technologies

L.14 	 From Kickboxing to Kickstarter: Public Engagement in
Virtual Spaces
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Kim Davis, Georgia Gwinnett College, Lawrenceville, GA
Speakers: Cassie Wright, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Pumping Iron
and Public-izing Private Matters: Mommy-Athlete Blogging and/as
Feminist Composition"
Matthew Gilchrist, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, "Beyond the Essay:
Sustainable Publically Engaged Assignments"
Thomas Keegan, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, "Beyond the Essay:
Sustainable Publically Engaged Assignments"
Jill Parrott, Eastern Kentucky University, Lexington, "Kickstarter: Bringing
the Public to the Work"

272

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 272

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Language

L.15 	 Language as Power: Discourse and the Creation of
Identity
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Alexis Horst, University of Colorado, Denver
Speakers: Jonathan Seggelke, University of Colorado, Denver, "The Sports
Section: Public Discourse and the Creation of Performative Identities"
Alexis Horst, University of Colorado, Denver, "Inclusivity and Public Discourse in the Composition Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.16 	 Learning from Students' Research Practices
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Kacy Lundstrom, Utah State University, Logan
Speakers: Michelle Brazier, Raritan Valley Community College, Branchburg, NJ, "SparkNotes as Secondary Research? The Public Work of Using Online Resources"
Matthew Nunes, Ohio University, Athens, "What Students Say They Learn
from Writing Research Papers"
Kacy Lundstrom, Utah State University, Logan, "What Made You Write
about That (and Are You Sure You Should)?"
Writing Programs

L.17 	 Among the "Swirl of Actors" in the Public U: The
Challenge of Cross-Disciplinary Instructional Outreach
and Assessment
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Carolyn Caffrey Gardner, University of Wisconsin Superior
Speakers: Carolyn Caffrey Gardner, University of Wisconsin Superior,
"Trying to 'Hang Together:' Toward A Sustainable Information Literacy/
Writing Collaboration"
Jamie White-Farnham, University of Wisconsin Superior,"Same Idea, Different Words: How Disciplinary Understandings of 'Research' Affect
Faculty Buy-In"
Deborah Schlacks, University of Wisconsin Superior, "Step-by-Step: Developing a WAC Mini-Grant Program"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 273

273

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

L.18 	 Articulating the Infrastructure of the Field: Perspectives
on the 2012 Survey of the Master's Degree Consortium of
Writing Studies Specialists
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, MI
Speakers: Kristine Blair, Bowling Green State University, OH, "A Perspective on the 2012 Master's Degree Consortium Survey from the Consortium of Doctoral Programs in Rhetoric and Composition"
John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "An Overview of Findings from the 2012 Master's Degree Consortium Survey of Writing
Studies Specialists"
Helen Foster, University of Texas, El Paso, "A Perspective on the 2012
Master's Degree Consortium Survey from the Association of Undergraduate Rhetoric and Writing Studies Majors"
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Considerations of
Research Design and Analyzing Large Data Sets in the 2012 Master's
Degree Consortium Survey"
Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "A Perspective
on the 2012 Master's Degree Consortium Survey from the Two-Year
College Association (TYCA)"
Theory

L.19 	 Postcomposition
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: James Brown, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: James Brown, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Postcomposition and Writing Systems"
Ron Brooks, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, "We Have Always
Been Postcomposition"
Jennifer Maclure, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Bodies in Postcomposition"
Respondent: Sidney Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville
Theory

L.20 	 Public Rhetoric and the First-Year Classroom
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Cindy Chavez, University of California, Merced
Speakers: Eileen Lagman, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"Intimate Spaces: Rescaling the Writing Classroom in Racial and Transnational Dimensions"

274

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 274

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

John Hanly, Georgetown College, KY, "Going Public and Growing Publics:
Readdressing the Ethical/Public Work of Composition"
Steven Accardi, The Pennsylvania State University, Hazleton, "Investigating Rhetorical Agency in the Everyday"
Basic Writing

L.21 	 The Multi-Media Composition Classroom
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: James Haendiges, Dixie State College of Utah, St. George
Speakers: Joan Perisse, SUNY New Paltz/ Marist College, NY
Mary Fakler, SUNY New Paltz, NY
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.22 	 Teaching Archives of Discomfort: Unsettling Cultural
History as Public Work
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Speakers: Pamela VanHaitsma, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Teaching to
Queer 'Straight' Archives"
Scott Gage, Colorado State University-Pueblo, "Teaching the Lynching Archive"
Jean Bessette, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Teaching Taboo Archives"
Information Technologies

L.23	

Researching and Designing with Social Media: Four
Case Studies
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Clay Spinuzzi, University of Texas, Austin
Speakers: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Social Media and Mobile Health: Creating Writing-Based Interventions to Improve Patient Outcomes"
Clay Spinuzzi, University of Texas, Austin, "Triangulating Qualitative Research with Social Media Streams"
Huatong Sun, University of Washington-Tacoma, "Struggle and Coercion:
Reshaping Local Political Discourses in Social Media"
Mark Zachry, University of Washington, Seattle, "Collaborating with
Strangers: Activity Streams to Support Meaningful Views of Others in
Social Media"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 275

275

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

L.24 	 The DIY LMS: Reaching New Publics with Homegrown
Learning Management Systems
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Quinn Warnick, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Speakers: Brian McNely, University of Kentucky, Louisville, "Learning
Management across Public Genres: Infrastructures for Teaching Transmedia Narratives"
James Schirmer, University of Michigan–Flint, "Rise above the LMS"
Quinn Warnick, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Biting the Hand That Feeds
Us? Ditching Institutional Software without Damaging the Institution"
History

L.25 	 Historical Studies of Women's Rhetorical Practices
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: M. Amanda Moulder, St. John's University, New York, NY
Speakers: M. Amanda Moulder, St. John's University, New York, NY, "Are
They Really 'Nontraditional Rhetors'? Cherokee Women and the Public
Work of Treaty-Making"
Dara Regaignon, Pomona College, Claremont, CA, "Maternal Networks:
Reading and Writing Motherhood"
Community, Civic & Public

L.26 	 Ethnographies of Bodies, Artifacts, and Activists
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Rajendra Panthee, The University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Nancy Reddy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Gold in the
Crossroads: Regional Voices and Rhetorical Spaces in the Wisconsin
Rural Writers Association"
Collyn Warner, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Gaining Activist
Literacy and Composition in Public Work: An Ethnographic Study of
LGBTQ Activists in North Carolina"
Erika Strandjord, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Making History:
Rhetorical Education and Handcrafts in Norwegian America"
Yvonne Stephens, Kent State University, OH, "Seniors' Uses of Literate
Practices to Manage the Aging Body"

276

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 276

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

L.27 	 "Pulled from My Roots": The Public Work of Youth Performance in the Borderlands
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Londie Martin, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Londie Martin, University of Arizona, Tucson, "'I'm Not Gonna
Yell, but I Won't Stay Silent': Queer Youth and Public Performance as
Art, Interruption, and Activism"
Sarah Gonzales, University of Arizona, Tucson, "'I Am Not Who You
Think I Am': Teaching Social Justice through Slam Poetry to Change
the Landscape of Youth Power"
Amanda Fields, University of Arizona, Tucson, "'If I Am What You Teach
Me': Listening Rhetorically to Youth Poetry Slams"
Community, Civic & Public

L.28 	 Feminist Methods Behind Bars: Critical Representation in
Prison Research, Writing, and Teaching
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, "This I Believe: Literacy, Reflexivity, and Teacher Identity"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Building a
Feminist Methodology for Representing Prison Writing"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy, NY, "The Feminist Goes to
Prison: Analyzing Interviews with Prison Writing Researchers-Teachers"
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Solidarity in Stripes:
Toward A Feminist Ethic of Prison Teaching"
Basic Writing

L.29 	 Basic Writing, Empirical Psychology, and Humanism:
Embracing Interpersonal Learning and Psychology for
Practical Interventions
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Diana George, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Speakers: Judith Buchalski, Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, "Basic Writing, Empirical Psychology, and Humanism: Embracing Interpersonal Learning and Psychology for Practical Interventions"
Neil Simons, Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, "Basic Writing, Empirical Psychology, and Humanism: Embracing Interpersonal Learning
and Psychology for Practical Interventions"
Stephen Jukuri, Lake Michigan College, Benton Harbor, MI, "Basic Writing, Empirical Psychology, and Humanism: Embracing Interpersonal
Learning and Psychology for Practical Interventions"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 277

277

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

L.30 	 Becoming "Literate" about Communities: Lessons
Learned in the Field
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Liliana Gonzalez, University of Texas at El Paso, "Learning beyond Theology Writing and Technology: Becoming Literate about Community"
Stefanie Johnson, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Composing a
Community: Writing as Newcomers"
Adam Webb, University of Texas at El Paso, "Learning beyond Workplace
Writing and Rhetoric: Becoming Literate about Community"
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "Communities and Scholars:
Teaching Each Other, Valuing All Literacies"
Jo Ann Bamdas, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Becoming Real
about Native American Indian Community by Creating and Sharing Best
Practices"
Basic Writing

L.31 	 Grading and Assessing Basic Writers
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Mark Vermillion, California State University, Fullerton
Speakers: Kerry Lane, Joliet Junior College, IL, "Collect $521 and Pass"
Chris Vassett, Mesa Community College, Tempe, AZ, "A Public Implementation of the Writing Program Administrator's Outcomes Statement in a
Developmental Writing Course"
Wendy Swyt, Highline Community College, Des Moines, WA, "Transparency and Grading Contracts: The Work of College Readiness"
Theory

L.32 	 Rhetorical Responses/Resisting Colonization
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Zachery C. Hickman, Miami University, FL
Speakers: Lami Fofana, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "De/
colonizing African Rhetorics: Publicizing, Histories, and Narratives of
Colonized Subjects"
Kyle Boggs, University of Arizona, Tucson, "A Rhetoric of Self-Defense:
(Re)articulating Violence as Indigenous Resistance on the San Francisco
Peaks"
Huiling Ding, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "SARS, Chinatowns, and Asian American Rhetoric"

278

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 278

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.33 	 Students' Construction of Writing Selves
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Todd Craig, The College of Staten Island-CUNY, NY
Speakers: Susan Reid, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Demystifying the Domains: Non-Traditional Students Negotiating Antecedent
Genres at a Two-Year College"
Mike Garcia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, "Avoidance of Failure
Narratives in Student Self-Assessment Essays"
Todd Craig, The College of Staten Island-CUNY, NY, "'Mixing What
COMPOSE(D) Me: The Public Work and Possibilities of Student-Centered Composing"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.34 	 The Political Work of Redesigning Writing Instruction for
Online Publics
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Nancy Myers, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Shana Scudder University of North Carolina at Greensboro,
"Context, Compromise, and Culture for Online Writing Instruction"
Nancy Myers, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "The Politics of
Myth Busting: Interactivity and Instructional Anxiety"
Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Collaboration and the Politics of Course Design"
Kathleen Leuschen, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Online
Writing Courses and the Politics of the First-Year Writing Requirement"

L.35 	 Publicizing Narratives of the Profession: Women's
Lives in the Profession and Digital Archives of Literacy
Narratives
Grande Ballroom A, First Floor

Chair: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Speakers: Devon Kehler, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Sound(ing) It
Out: A Social Semiotic Analysis of Aural Literacy Narratives on DALN"
Brittany Hull, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
Jessica Rucki, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University, PA, Philadelphia, "Women's
Lives in the Profession at a Public, Regional, MA-granting Institution"
Respondent: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 279

279

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Open Working Meeting of the Human Subjects Task Force
Skybox 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are invited.
Chair: Karen Lunsford, University of California, Santa Barbara

280

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 280

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.01 	 (Re)-branding Town and Gown: Bridging the Gap between
the Local Community and the Ivory Tower
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer Burkett, Ouachita Baptist University, Arkadelphia, AR
Speakers: Laura Hakala, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg,
"Unpacking Hattiesburg: Composition Classrooms, Ethnographic Essays, and Suitcase Colleges"
Courtney Watson, Jefferson College of Health Sciences, Roanoke, VA, "Beyond Bedside Manner: Using Composition to Foster a Culture of Care"
Paige Gray, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, "Our Town:
Incorporating Community into FYC Studies"
Jennifer Burkett, Ouachita Baptist University, Arkadelphia, AR, "Where Do
You Think You're Going? Exploring Repercussions of Brain Drain in a
Small Southern Community"
Writing

M.03 	 Using A Corpus of Student Writing to Introduce
Disciplinary Practices in A First-Year Composition Course
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Ute Römer, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Ute Römer, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, "Exploring
a Corpus of Advanced Student Writing: An Introduction to MICUSP
Simple"
Jack Hardy, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Corpora and Student Ethnographers in Freshman English: A Case Study"
Audrey Roberson, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, "Disciplinary
Writing for Freshman: Challenges and Possibilities"

282

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 282

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

M.04 	 Building Textual Bridges: An Analysis of Artifacts
Connecting the Writing Center to the University Public
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Alyssa-Rae Hug, St. John's University, Queens, NY
Speakers: Sandra Nelson, St. John's University, Queens, NY, "Casual Chat
and Academic Dialogue: The Effects of Social Media on the Rhetoric of
Online Sessions"
Cassandra Richardson-Coughlin, St. John's University, Queens, NY,
"Bridging the Gap Between Client Intent and Actuality in the Writing
Center Session"
Alyssa-Rae Hug, St. John's University, Queens, NY, "Building Narrative
Bridges: Writing Center Logs as Sites of Communication and Reflection"
Laurel Cunningham, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Talk and Power in
Writing Center Consultations"
Respondent: Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Academic Writing

M.05 	 Narratives at Work and in School Settings to Teach
Writing and Critical Thinking
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Carol D. Bollin, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Speakers: Gretchen Bartels, University of California, Riverside, "From
Lab Report to Lab Narrative: Personal Writing's Role in Academic Discourse"
Douglas Christensen, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Going Public:
What Academic Writing Should Learn from the Familiar Essay"
Travis Rountree, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, "Mountains
of Opportunity: The Benefits of Using Appalachian Studies in a WAC
Course"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.06 	 Gamification and Education 101: Play to Learn
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Doug Eyman, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: Wendi Sierra, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Gamification in the Classroom"
Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "PinPoint Your
Learning: Game Design for Better Conference Engagement"
Catrina Mitchum, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "PinPoint Your
Learning: Game Design for Better Conference Engagement"
Grace Hagood, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Marco Polo: Mobile Methods and Itinerant Composition"
CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 283

283

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

M.07 	 Reviving and Sustaining a WAC/WID Program: Traditions,
Technology, and Multilingualism
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, Oakland
Speakers: Kenny Walker, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Reanimating the
Institutional Golem: Technological Kairos to Repurpose WID Requirements for WAC Revival"
Elizabeth Leahy, University of Arizona, Tucson, "WAC/WID for the Multilingual Majority: Engaging, Embracing, and Leveraging the Multiple
Literacies of Our Students"
Al Harahap, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Looking Back to Get Ahead:
Learning from WAC/WID History"
Respondent: Karen Lunsford, University of California, Santa Barbara
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.08 	 Inside Out: Teaching Embodied Research, Writing, and
Revision
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor

Chair: Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Maggie Christensen, University of Nebraska, Omaha, "'Minding the Gap': An Intermodal Strategy for Revising Multimodal Projects"
Tammie M. Kennedy, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "'Passionate Attachments' and Embodied Research for Public Discourses"
Scott Aichinger, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "Embodying Metaphor:
Queering the Mind/Body Split in First-Year Writing"
Information Technologies

M.09 	 Addressing the "Crisis" in Scholarly Publishing:
A Sustainable Approach
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor

Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Pam Childers, Lesley University, Cambridge, MA, "Using Publishing Collaboratives to Sustain K-12 / University Dialogues"
Will Hochman, Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven, "Rethinking Faculty Roles in Scholarly Publishing: How "
Mike Palmquist, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Crisis? What
Crisis? The Publishing Collaborative as a Sustainable Approach to
Scholarly Publishing"
Susan Thomas, University of Sydney, Australia, "The Publishing Collaborative as a Vehicle for Fostering International Partnerships"
Respondent: Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara

284

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 284

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

History

M.10 	 Women's Literacy Practices in Historical Context
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Writing Public Sentiment: The Role of Early Nineteenth-Century Memorial
Samplers in Gendering Sentiment and Mourning Practices"
Carolyn Skinner, Ohio State University-Mansfield, "Turning to the Public
as an Ethos Strategy for Nineteenth-Century American Women Physicians"
Janine Solberg, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Taking Shorthand
for Literacy: Historicizing the Literate Activity of Women Stenographers
in the Early Twentieth-Century U.S."
Community, Civic & Public

M.11 	 Community Collaborations
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Lan Vu, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Speakers: Heather Lindenman, University of Maryland, College Park,
"Writing for Change: Collaborative Written Performance"
Virginia Crisco, California State University, Fresno, "Academic Literacy
and Community Activist Writing: The kNOw Youth Media's Influence
on Classroom Teaching and Learning"
Community, Civic & Public

M.12 	 Composing Public Bodies/Embodying Public
Compositions
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, CUNY, NY
Speakers: Ann Ferrell, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green,
"Bourbon Tourism and the Embodiment of Expertise"
Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, CUNY, NY, "(Re)Fashioning
Class Identities: The Composition of Student Embodiments"
Sheila Bock, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, "Embodiment, Display, and
the Formation of Public Memory"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 285

285

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

M.13 	 Finding a Way In: Examining Spaces of Student Public
Writing
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Matthew Ortoleva, Worcester State University, MA
Speakers: Bryna Siegel Finer, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "The
Process of Publicity: A Model for Teaching Public Writing"
Matthew Ortoleva, Worcester State University, MA, "Public Writing as a
WAC Alternative"
Cathryn Molloy, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "'Curiosity
Won't Kill Your Cat': A Meditation on Bathroom Graffiti as Underlife
Public Writing"
Academic Writing

M.14 	 Methods, Methodology, Procedures: Devising a
Swalesian Move/Step Schema for Research Article
Methods Sections
Capri 112, First Floor
Chair: Sarah Huffman, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Stephanie Link, Iowa State University, Ames
Sarah Huffman, Iowa State University, Ames
Elena Cotos, Iowa State University, Ames
Basic Writing

M.15 	 Class Confidence: Basic Writing, Early Start, and the
Future of Remediation at Public Universities
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Tom Wilcox, California State University, Fullerton
Speakers: Steve Westbrook, California State University, Fullerton, "Remediation or Class Discrimination"
Patrick Vallee, California State University, Fullerton, "Say What? Understanding and Using Professor Feedback"
Elizabeth Saur, California State University, Fullerton, "Enforced Remediation and Reinforced Fears"
Sheryl Fontaine, California State University, Fullerton, "Learning the Etiquette of Academic Culture"

286

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 286

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

M.16 	 Challenges and Directions for Citation Pedagogy: Taking
the Citation Project into the Classroom
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer O'Brien, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Jennifer O'Brien, Washington State University, Pullman, "Critical Citation Awareness and the Annotated Bibliography"
Ariane Metz, Washington State University, Pullman, "Maus in the Classroom: A Comic-based Citation Pedagogy"
Way Jeng, Washington State University, Pullman, "Using Peer-Based Pedagogy to Re-frame Power Relationships in Writing"
Theory

M.17 	 Objectivity?
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Kristi Wilson, Soka University of America, Aliso Viejo, CA,
"The Wider Implications: Cultural Hegemony or Assessment?"
Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge, "A Celebration of
Subjectivity"
Ian Barnard, California State University, Northridge, "The Resilience of
Objectivity"
Geghard Arakelian, California State University, Northridge, "Patriarchy
and Colonialism in the Writing Classroom: A Call for Resistance"
Respondent: Aneil Rallin, Soka University of America, Aliso Viejo, CA
Community, Civic & Public

M.18 	 Voices of Diversity Project: The Work of Op-Eds
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, Miami,
"From Little Havana to Little Haiti"
Andrea Potter, Edgewood College/Progressive Magazine, Madison, WI
Matthew Rothschild, Progressive Magazine, Madison, WI, "Writing OpEds"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 287

287

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Basic Writing

M.19 	 Going Public through Partnership: Basic Writing as a
Nexus for Transfer, Advocacy, and Activism
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Nicole MacLaughlin, University of Notre Dame, IN
Speakers: Nicole MacLaughlin, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Reaching
towards the Whole Student: Collaboration as an Essential Element of an
Accelerated Approach to Basic Writing"
Paula Patch, Elon University, NC, "Better Together: Opportunities for Including Athletic Academic Advisors as Partners in the Teaching and
Learning of Writing"
Ann McNair, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, "Operation
Advocacy: Partnerships for Fostering Student-Veterans' Success and Activism in Writing"
Basic Writing

M.20 	 Radical Reform: Changing Basic Writing through Basic
Writing Teachers
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Estee Beck, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Shiloh Peters, Missouri State University, Springfield, "Teaching Writing IS a Second Language: How Second Language Acquisition
Theory May Mitigate Instructor Bias"
Jerry Stinnett, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Finding a New Flagpole:
Print Literacy, Teaching Practices, and the Instructional Counterpublics
of Basic Writing"
Writing Programs

M.21 	 Gateway Courses and the Undergraduate Writing Major:
A Roundtable Discussion
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Teresa Henning, Southwest Minnesota State University, Marshall
Speakers: Teresa Henning, Southwest Minnesota State University, Marshall, "Surveying Gateway Courses in Undergraduate Writing Majors:
Emerging Definitions and Directions"
Greg Giberson, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "The Gateway Course
and Eighteen Program Profiles"
Anne Zanzucchi, University of California, Merced, "Implementing Advanced Composition as Gateway to the Major"
Sandy Tweedie, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, "Embracing Gateway
Contraries: Resolving Local Situations with National Outcomes Mandates"

288

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 288

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

M.22 	 Students, Teachers, and Workers in Transit: Rhetorical
and Pedagogical Implications
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Kate Vieira, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Anna Floch, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Students in
Transit: Understanding the Rhetorical Affordances and Limitations of
Moving between Geographies"
Annika Konrad, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Teachers in Transit:
Examining Embodied Identities of Place in Composition Classrooms"
Respondent: Cydney Alexis, University of Denver, CO
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.23 	 Conceiving Literacy: How Students and Educators Define
Literacy across Educational Contexts
Skybox 208, Second Floor
Chair: Russel Durst, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Ryan Witt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA
Maya Sanyal, Drew University, Madison, NJ
Meaghan Brewer, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA
Theory

M.24 	 Alternatives to the Argument: Emotion, Narrative, and the
Personal
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington
Speakers: Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Revising
How We Teach Emotion: Rejecting the Public Spectacle of Polarized
Arguments"
Rachel Spear, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, "Publicizing the Personal in Composition Courses"
Norma Aceves, California State University, Northridge, "How I Came to
Be a Rhetorician"
Research

M.25 	 Promoting Transfer through Reflection:
A Cross-Institutional Study of Metacognition,
Identity, and Rhetoric
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor
Chair: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 289

289

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Speakers: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Reflection
as a Means to Understand Transfer and Metacognition: Pedagogy, Assessment, and Cross-Institutional Results"
Ed Jones, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ, "Identity as Mediator
of Knowledge Transfer"
Carol Hayes, George Washington University, DC, "Rhetorical Pedagogy in
FYW: Reflective Writing, Metacognition, and the Promotion of Transfer"
Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "Reflection and
Metacognition: Assessing the Intersection between Individual and Programmatic Factors"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.26 	 Alternative Rhetorics, Explicit Instruction, and Student
Reflection
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Kathryn Evans, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Ghanashyam Sharma, University of Louisville, KY, "Writing
with the World: Using Alternative Rhetorical Models to Unpack Traditional Argumentation"
Kathryn Evans, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Explicitly Teaching
Situated Thinking about Genre through Induction Rather Than Deduction"
Melanie Cregger, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Reconsidering
Reflection: The Role of Student Reflection in the Genre-Based Classroom"
Research

M.27 	 Mapping Transfer Research and Its Potential Impact on
Public Life
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC
Speakers: Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC, "The Elon Research Seminar
and Current Understandings of Writing Transfer"
Paula Rosinski, Elon University, NC, "Students' Transfer of Rhetorical
Sensitivity Between Informal and Formal Spaces"
Rebecca Pope-Ruark, Elon University, NC, "Writing Transfer from the
Classroom to the Community and Back Again"

290

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 290

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.28 	 In Their Own Voices: Self-Reflection on the
Composition Process of College Students with
Asperger's or High Functioning ASD
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor
Chair: Sara Glennon, Landmark College, Putney, VT
Speakers: Lynne Shea, Landmark College, Putney, VT
Sara Glennon, Landmark College, Putney, VT
John Kipp, Landmark College, Putney, VT
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.29 	 Private Moments Made Public: Navigating the Boundary
Between Personal and Public Identity
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Kelly Kinney, SUNY Binghamton
Speakers: Elizabeth Macaluso, Binghamton University, NY, "Teaching
First-Year Writing Through Reading Identity"
Annette Krizanich, Binghamton University, NY, "Return to the Personal:
Validating the 'I' in Composition"
Jennifer Case, Binghamton University, NY, "Avoiding Voyeurism: When
Classroom Experiences Infiltrate Personal Writing"
Tara Betts, Binghamton University, NY, "Bigger Than Hip Hop: How Students Present and Defend Themselves"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.30 	 FYC Classes as Sites of Rhetorical Education: The Public
Concerns of Borderlands Communities
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Yazmin Lazcano-Pry, Arizona State University, Mesa
Speakers: Sonia Christine Arellano, University of Arizona, Tucson, "FYC
Classes as Frontiers or Borders: Ways Competing Epistemologies Concerning Language and Content Create Inelastic or Permeable Spaces"
Casie Moreland, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Two Students, Two
Identities, Two Credits: Complexities of and Pedagogy in Dual Credit
FYC Classes"
Jaime Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos, "FYC Classes as Sites of
Borderlands Rhetorical Education: ¿Quién es más Americano?"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 291

291

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

M.31 	 Political Economies of Literacy Instruction: Configuring
Basic Writing
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Justin Obara, Washington State University, Pullman, "Constructing Basic Writing at a Branch Campus"
Siskanna Naynaha, Lane Community College, Eugene, OR, "Constructing
Basic Writing at a Community College"
Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Pullman, "Constructing Basic
Writing at a Land-Grant Institution"
Respondent: Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, Oakland
Theory

M.32 	 Damnable Things: Putting Sin into Composition
Royale Pavilion 5, First Floor

Chair: Monique Akassi, Bowie State University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Jacob Hughes, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"Chaos, Not Composition"
Marion Wolfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Passing Judgment
on Plagiarism: Balancing Pedagogical and Institutional Concerns"
Kristopher Lotier, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Ever
Seeing, Never Perceiving: Composition for the Irredeemable"
William Kurlinkus, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Institutionalizing Guilt: Plagiarism and Corporate Time Use Policies"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.33 	 Literacy Narratives and Student Publications
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Sarah Spring, Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC
Speakers: Sarah Spring, Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC, "Going Public! Using the Digital Archive of Literacy Narratives to Give College
Students a Public Writing Space"
Deborah Kuzawa, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Public Perceptions, Personal Realities: Adult Undergraduates and the Digital Archive
of Literacy Narratives"
Nolan Chessman, CUNY Graduate Center, Brooklyn, NY, "The Other 99%:
Reclaiming Student Publications in First-Year Composition"

292

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 292

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Open Working Meeting of the Committee on Best
Practices for Online Writing Instruction
Skybox 203, Second Floor

This group will discuss its work, introduce initiatives, and solicit feedback and suggestions. This session is an opportunity to learn about and participate in the work of
the CCCC. All are invited.
Co-Chairs: Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Riverton, NJ
Beth L. Hewett, UMUC

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 293

293

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

N.03 	 "Basic" Writers, "Multilingual" Writers, and
"Mainstream" Writers: the Contested Terms of
Transitional Writing from the Student Perspective
Royale Pavilion 4, First Floor

Chair: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York, NY
Speakers: Tom Pierce, Central New Mexico Community College, Albuquerque
Lindsey Ives, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Seonsook Park, New Mexico Highlands University, Rio Rancho Campus,
Albuquerque
Michael Schwartz, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Anni Leming, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Academic Writing

N.04 	 The Modes as Critical Tropes
Capri 104, First Floor

Chair: Hugh Culik, Macomb Community College, East Lansing, MI
Speakers: Chris Gilliard, Macomb Community College, East Lansing, MI,
"Modes and the Focus on Discourse"
Hugh Culik, Macomb Community College, East Lansing, MI, "Modes in
Theory and Practice"
Susan Richardson, Macomb Community College, East Lansing, MI, "Mediating the Modes"
Mary Ragan, Macomb Community College, East Lansing, MI, "Critical
Thinking a la Mode"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.05 	 Cross-Cultural Communication: Pedagogical
Implications for a Diverse Campus
Capri 105, First Floor

Chair: Alyson Guthrie, North Dakota State University, Fargo
Speakers: Jade Sandbulte, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Cultural
Bias: How Writing Preferences Evolve Over Time"
Alyson Guthrie, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Bridging the Gap:
Collaborating First-Year Writing and ELL Students"
Tatjana Schell, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Challenges of Teaching College Composition as a Non-Native Speaking Instructor"

298

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 298

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

N.06 	 Digital Environments, Public Writing, and Student
Needs: Using Instructional Assistants to Facilitate
Learning in Online Classes
Top of the Riviera North, Monaco Tower, 24th Floor
Chair: Andrew Bourelle, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Ronni Souers, Arizona State University, Tempe
Duane Roen, Arizona State University, Tempe
Sherry Rankins-Robertson, University of Arkansas-Little Rock
Angela Clark-Oates, Arizona State University, Tempe
Tiffany Bourelle, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Community, Civic & Public

N.07 	 Racing the Local, Locating Race: Rhetorical
Historiography through the Digital Humanities
Capri 103, First Floor

Chair: Shannon Carter, Texas A&M-Commerce
Speakers: Jennifer Jones, Texas A&M-Commerce, "Demonstration: Data
Source Annotation Tool"
Kelly Dent, Texas A&M-Commerce, Commerce, TX, "Demonstration:
Data Source Annotation Tool"
Carleton Cooper, Texas A&M-Commerce, TX, "Racing the Local"
Belford Page, Greenville, TX, "Racing the Local"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M-Commerce, TX, "Racing the Local, Locating
Race: Rhetorical Historiography and the Digital Humanities"
Respondent: Matthew K. Gold, The Graduate Center, CUNY, NY
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.08 	 From Cylinder to Soundcloud: Remixing Audio
Archives for Public Radio
Grande Ballroom G, First Floor
Chair: Jason Luther, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Patrick Williams, Syracuse University, NY
James O'Connor, Syracuse University, NY
Jason Luther, Syracuse University, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 299

299

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

N.09 	 Civic Discourse in Digital Spaces: Exigence and
Action
Royale Pavilion 7, First Floor

Chair: Anne Herrington, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Jessica Ouellette, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
Northampton, MA, "Blogging Borders: Transnational Feminism and
Global Voices"
Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Rumblr on the Tumblr: Rhetorical Action and Participatory Audiences"
Jenny Krichevsky, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Dialogue in the
Blog: Re-Animating Dialogic Relations by Tracing Digital Genres"
Institutional and Professional

N.10 	 Reading, Writing, and Remixing Composition's Public
Identity
Grande Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Danielle Koupf, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Danielle Koupf, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Compiling the
Texts of Composition: Textual Reuse in Representations of the Field"
Alice Horning, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Expert Readers Reading: Lessons About Reading, Scholarly Writing and Audience Awareness"
Casie Fedukovich, North Carolina State University, Garner, NC, "Post-It
Soulcraft: NDOW, Secrets, and Positive Loitering"
Institutional and Professional

N.11 	 Aligning Expectations: The Integrative Mission of
Composition as a Teaching Subject
Royale Pavilion 8, First Floor

Chair: Terry Zawacki, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham,
"(Re-)Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of
Integration"
Justin Ericksen, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Re-)Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of Integration"
Leon Erickson, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Re-)Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of Integration"

300

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 300

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

LeAnne Laux-Bachand, Western Washington University, Bellingham,
"(Re-)Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of
Integration"
Michelle Magnero, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Re-)
Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of Integration"
Aimee Odens, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Re-)Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of Integration"
Samuel Johnson, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Re-)
Aligning Expectations: Graduate Student Teachers as Agents of Integration"
Carmen Werder, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "(Mis-)
Aligned Expectations: How They Work as Agents of Dis-Integration"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.12 	 "That's So Meta": Supporting the Development of
Meta-Awareness through New Media Composition in
College Writing
Capri 106, First Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Crystal VanKooten, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Awareness, Adaptation, and Audio-Visual Composing: Looking for Markers of
Meta-Awareness through Video in First-Year Writing"
Chris Dickman, St. Louis University, MO, "A Kahn Academy for Writing?
Facilitating Meta-Awareness through New Media Instruction"
Ben Gunsberg, Utah State University, Logan, "Using Images to Concretize
the Abstract Language of Academic Writing"
Information Technologies

N.13 	 You Are Here: Rhetoric, Response, and Respect
Capri 107, First Floor

Chair: Eliot Parker, Mountwest Community and Technical College, Huntington, WV
Speakers: Regina Duthely, St. John's University, Queens, NY, "Laying it
Down!: African American Students, Subversive Digital Discourse, and
Respectability Politics in the Academic Sphere"
Laura Sparks, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Made and Unmade After
Abu Ghraib: Digital Media and the Rhetoric of Torture"
Christina LaVecchia, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Technology as an Affective Modality: Shaping Our Responses and Relations to Occupy"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 301

301

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

History

N.14 	 Public Rhetoric and the Construction of Literacy
Capri 108, First Floor

Chair: Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia University, New York, NY
Speakers: Anne Bello, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "How (Not)
to Go Public with Disciplinary Knowledge: Defending Webster's Third
New International Dictionary in the Popular Press"
Michael Sobiech, University of Louisville, KY, "When (ex)Priests Lie
About (dead)Presidents: The Public Rhetoric of Religious/Political
Fraud in Father Chiniquy's Lincoln Conspiracy Theory"
Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia University, New York, NY, "Radio Free America: The Public Project of Multiliteracy Instruction"
Information Technologies

N.15 	 Building Interfaces: Three Models of Theory and
Research for Understanding the Technologies that
Cross Publics
Grande Ballroom C, First Floor

Chair: Michael Faris, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Speakers: Douglas Walls, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "The
Twitter and Its Problems: Multiple Publics and Negotiated Accounts"
Laura Martinez, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Crossing Contexts: Using Digital Literacies to Interface across Activity Systems"
Amber M. Buck, College of Staten Island, CUNY, NY, "Page Against the
Machine: Rewriting Interfaces on the Social Network"
Writing Programs

N.16 	 "Make New Friends, But Keep The Old": Incorporating New Media and Multimodality in a Growing Writing
Program
Grande Ballroom D, First Floor

Chair: Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware, Newark
Speakers: Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware, Newark, "Why
New Media is the Best Thing That Ever Happened to Ancient Rhetoric"
Candice Wellhausen, University of Delaware, Newark, "Using Visual Rhetoric to Inform Classroom-Based Assessment"
Michael McCamley, University of Delaware, Newark, "Coming Back from
DMAC: Multimodal Composition and Writing Program Administration"
Barb Lutz, University of Delaware, Newark, "Tutor Training for Mutimodal Texts"

302

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 302

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

N.17 	 Organizational Rhetorics
Capri 109, First Floor

Chair: Kenna Barrett, Graduate Student, New Haven, CT
Speakers: Alexis Pegram, University of Wisconsin Milwaukee, "Turning
the Public Green: A Look at Agency, Ethos, and Identifications within
Environmental and Anti-Environmental Groups"
Shui-yin Sharon Yam, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Developing
Global Literacy: The Re-purposing of Academic Discourse by Intergovernmental Organizations"
Kenna Barrett, Graduate Student, New Haven, CT, "Composing in Public:
Rhapsody and Jeremiad in Nonprofit Texts"
Information Technologies

N.18 	 Our Students' Public Practice and Our Pedagogical
Work: Learning From Our Students' Social Media
Composing Practices
Grande Ballroom H, First Floor

Chair: Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Sarah R. Spangler, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA,
"Surfing a Facebook Sea of Roomies: High-stakes Profile Writing for
College Bound High School Seniors"
Ryan Shepherd, Arizonia State University, Tempe, "What Are We Doing: A
Survey of First-Year Composition Students' Use of Facebook"
Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Beyond 'I thought
it would be cool': Basic Writers as Skillful Social Media Composers"
Community, Civic & Public

N.19 	 Locating Public Literacies: Multimodal Education In
and Around the University
Capri 110, First Floor

Chair: Casey Boyle, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Alison Regan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Undergraduates in the Archives; Undergraduates Making Archives: New Ways to
Collect, Create, and Re-Purpose Local Materials"
Tony Sams, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Longitudinal Capture of
Student Experience: The 'U and You' Project"
Heather Hirschi, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "The Dreamkeeper
Project: Reports on Culturally Responsive Pedagogical Interventions"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 303

303

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Basic Writing

N.20 	 Demystifying Academic Literacy: Basic Writing,
Rhetorical Competence, and Self-Assessment
Capri 111, First Floor

Chair: Jasper Neel, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX
Speakers: Joanna Crammond, La Roche College, Pittsburgh, PA, "Using
Metacommentary to Cultivate Self-Assessment Strategies in Basic Writers"
Linda Jordan-Platt, La Roche College, Pittsburgh, PA, "'Speak with No
Context to No One': Introductions, Thesis Statements and the Problem
of Content"
Jessica Ganni, La Roche College/Indiana University of PA, Pittsburgh,
"Making Learning Visible: Teaching Basic Writers to Close-Read Their
Own Writing"
Community, Civic & Public

N.21 	 Toward a Theory of Multimodal Public Rhetoric
Capri 112, First Floor

Chair: Justin Jory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Caroline Dadas, Montclair State University, NJ, "Constructing
a Nationwide Civic Movement: The Role of Multimodality in Occupy
Wall Street in Both Mediated and Face-to-Face Contexts"
Justin Jory, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Multimodality,
Agency, and Accountability in the Public Sphere: Or, How Multimodality Shaped the Rhetoric of the UC-Davis Pepper Spray Incident"
Marlena Stanford, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Multimodal Artifact-Based Performance and Mobilization in Social Movements: A
Case Study of the 2012 Librotraficante Caravan to Tucson"
Basic Writing

N.22 	 Bridging the Gap(s) in Reading, Writing, and Critical
Thinking
Capri 113, First Floor

Chair: Debbie Rowe, York College/ CUNY, NY
Speakers: John Wittman, California State University, Stanislaus, "Critical
Transitions: Research on the College Literacy Practices of Unprepared
Students"
Lee McClain, Seton Hill University, Greensburg, PA, "Crossing the Bridge
from Basic through Digital/Critical Assignents"
Maureen McBride, University of Nevada, Reno, "Fostering Reading Identity for Students in the Developmental Writing Classroom"
Meghan Sweeney, University of Nevada, Reno, "Fostering Reading Identity for Students in the Developmental Writing Classroom"

304

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 304

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

N.23 	 Faculty Peer Mentoring: Improving Student Writing
Across the Disciplines
Capri 114, First Floor

Chair: Christy Rishoi, Mott College, Ann Arbor, MI
Speakers: Donald Samson, Radford University, Orlando, FL, "An Assignment to Help Science Faculty Teach Writing"
Christy Rishoi, Mott College, Ann Arbor, MI, "English Department, Heal
Thyself"
Larry Juchartz, Mott College, Ann Arbor, MI, "I'll Do the Content, You Do
the Grammar Stuff: Writing as Conflict Across a Contested Curriculum"
Dan Frazier, Springfield College, MA, "Making It All Come Together: Faculty Writing Assignments and Department Outcomes"
Academic Writing

N.24 	 Graduate Writing and Graduate Writing Pedagogy:
The Writer Teaching Writing
Capri 115, First Floor

Chair: Deirdre McMahon, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Holly Carpenter, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA "Teaching
Genre and Craft for Analyzing and Writing Research Articles and Dissertations"
Deirdre McMahon, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "Graduate Mentoring and Faculty Development via the Writing Center"
Ann Green, St. Jospeh's University, Philadelphia, PA, "The Writing Teacher
Writing"
Basic Writing

N.25 	 The Impact of Social Class on Basic Writing Pedagogy
Grande Ballroom F, First Floor

Chair: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH
Speakers: William Thelin, The University of Akron, OH, "Conceptual
Learning for Working-Class Students in Basic Writing"
Dawn Lombardi, The University of Akron, OH, "Basic Writing and the Forgotten Middle Class"
Shelley DeBlassis, New Mexico State University at Carlsbad, "Bourdieu
and the Baseline Model of Basic Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 305

305

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

N.26 	 Lesson on the Transfer of Writing Skills: Adapting to
New School and Public Environment
Skybox 206, Second Floor

Chair: Llana Carroll, New York University, NY
Speakers: Erin Adamson, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Because My
Advisor Told Me So: Exploring How Science Faculty Teach Academic
Writing to Graduate Students"
Jill Jeffery, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Rethinking Secondary-Postsecondary Writing Transitions in a Time of Common Core Standards: What FYC Instructors Need to Know about New High School
Writing Standards"
Rebecca Robinson, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Thinking across the
Curriculum: Incorporating Disciplinary-Based Critical Skills into FirstYear Composition"
Writing Programs

N.27 	 International Admissions Brokers: Streamlining or
Complicating Writing Support?
Skybox 207, Second Floor

Chair: Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Mark Harrison, Indiana University Bloomington, "Brokers, International Testing, and Uncertain Standards"
Erin Jensen, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Building Bridge Courses
for Brokered Students"
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Exigencies: International
Admissions Brokerage Globally and Locally"
Writing Programs

N.28 	 The International Work of Composition: The
Development of a Multilingual Writing Center at
Home and Abroad
Skybox 208, Second Floor

Chair: Lucile Duperron, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA
Speakers: Lisa wolff, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA, "Keeping the Cultural Universe: Training and Learning from Overseas Assistants"
Noreen Lape, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA, "Going International: The
Development of a Multilingual Writing Center"
Lucile Duperron, Dickinson College, Carlisle, PA, "French and American
Relations: Mediating Academic Writing During Study Abroad"

306

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 306

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

N.29 	 The Silence Project: Giving Voice to Academics with
Severe Writing Difficulties
Skybox 209, Second Floor

Chair: John Walter, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Carrie A. Lamanna, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,
"Why I Quit School: A Performative Exploration of the Relationship Between Writing and Power"
Juliette Ludeker, Howard Community College, Columbia, MD, "Waiting
for the 'Luxury of Fearlessness': When Being Able to Write Has Nothing to Do with the Ability to Write"
Lisa Schamess, Emerson College Preparatory School, Washington, DC,
"Standing the 'Almost Impossible': Uses of Silence and Failure in Writing and Teaching"
John Walter, St. Louis University, MO, "Becoming Acquainted with the
Silent Underground: Academics and Severe Writing Difficulties"
Information Technologies

N.30 	 Code in the Classroom: Student Writers as Game
Designers
Skybox 210, Second Floor

Chair: Devon Hackelton, University of California, Riverside
Speakers: Scott Nelson, University of Texas at Austin, "Send in the Clones:
Invention and Intellectual Property in Amateur Video Game Development"
Brian Ballentine, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "No Experience
Necessary: Writing and Game Development in the Undergraduate Classroom"
Patrick Bahls, University of North Carolina, Asheville, "LaTeXnics: The
Effect of Specialized Typesetting Software on STEM Students' Composition Processes"
Amanda Wray, University of North Carolina, Asheville, "LeTeXnics: The
Effect of Specialized Typesetting Software on STEM Students' Composition Processes
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.31 	 Teachers Going Public: Toward New Understandings
of Literacies, Social Justice, and Inter-Institutional
Partnerships
Skybox 211, Second Floor

Chair: Rob Mawyer, Rock Valley College, Rockford, IL
Speakers: Robert Mawyer, Rock Valley College, Rockford, IL, "Dual Enrollment Stakeholders and the Metaphors They Live By"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, las vegas 2013	

b154-314-4Cs-2013.indd 307

307

1/22/13 4:08 PM

Gayle Coskan-Johnson, Brock University, St Catharines, Ontario, Canada,
"Engagement, Resistance, and Public Writing at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba"
Kelly Concannon Mannise, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. LauderdaleDavie, FL, "At-Risk Literacies: Expansive Accounts of Community
Partnerships"
Language

N.32 	 Texts and Contexts: Studies by and With Chinese
Students and Teachers (The Empire Strikes Back)
Skybox 212, Second Floor

Chair: Julie Swedin, Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Speakers: Wen Shan, San Bernardino, CA, "New Generation of Second
Language Writing Studies in China"
Yue Chen, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI, "New Generation of Second Language Writing Studies in China"
Linjing He, California State University, San Bernardino, "Functions of Code
Switching in L2 Writing Classroom: Among Chinese ESL Students"
Ming Fang, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "From Text to Context:
Discourse Features of Chinese Students' Argumentative Writing"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.33 	 Transgressing Composition Spaces: Shaping
Students' Conocimiento with Pedagogies that
Empower Public Acts
Grande Ballroom B, First Floor

Chair: Candace Zepeda, The University of Texas, San Antonio
Speakers: Candace Zepeda, The University of Texas, San Antonio
Issac Hinojosa, Northwest Vista College, San Antonio, TX
Kristina Gutierrez, The University of Texas, San Antonio
Theory

N.34 	 Decentering the Able Body: The Praxis of Disability
Rhetorics in Public Spaces
Royale Pavilion 6, First Floor

Chair: Stephanie Wheeler, Texas A&M University-College Station
Speakers: Stephanie Wheeler, Texas A&M University-College Station,
"Writing As Public Work: The Ugly Laws, Nazi Eugenics, and Freakdom"
Aydé Enriquez-Loya, Texas A&M University-College Station, "Decolonial
Writing Pedagogies: Numbering the Stories/Remembering the Bodies of
Students of Color with Disabilities"
Casie Cobos, Illinois State University, Normal, "Composing/Composed
Crazy: At the Academic and Public Intersections of Disability and Chicana Rhetorics"
