MW.01	Overcoming the "Impostor Syndrome": Opening
Professional Paths for Graduate Students
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Workshop Leaders: Mindy Myers, Central Michigan University, Mount
Pleasant
Dustin Bissell, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant
Donny Winter, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant
Colleen Green, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant
Michelle Campbell, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Chris Wiesman, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant

64

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 64

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

		

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

MW.02	Breaking Down Barriers and Enabling Access: (Dis)Ability
in Writing Classrooms and Programs
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Workshop Leaders: Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, Ypsilanti
Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, City University of New York,
NY
Nicole Green, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
Allison Hitt, Syracuse University, NY
Hilary Selznick, Illinois State University, Normal
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington Tacoma
Valerie Lotz, University of Alabama, Huntsville
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado Denver
Bre Garrett, University of West Florida, Pensacola
Tara Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Melissa Helquist, Salt Lake Community College, UT
Brenda Brueggemann, University of Louisville, KY
Patricia Dunn, State University of New York, NY
Craig A. Meyer, Ohio University, Athens
Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware, Newark
		

Community, Civic & Public

MW.03	Prison Networks: Broadcasting Why Prison Writing
Matters
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Co-Chairs: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY
Workshop Leaders: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, "Prison Research and the Digital Humanities"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "When the Writing
Researcher is Incarcerated: Fieldnotes From the Inside"
Kathie Klarreich, ArtSpring, Florida City, FL, "Writing across	Communities: Connecting Prison and University Classrooms through Correspondence"
Ashley Lucas, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Writing Across Communities: Connecting Prison and University Classrooms through Correspondence"
Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Prison Research and the Digital Humanities"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	65

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 65

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, NY, "The Transitions Project:
Building a University Partnership with Public High School for Youth
Offenders"
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA, "Writing Workshops
and the Politics of Censorship"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY, "The
Arthur Kill Alliance (AKA): Working within and against Carceral Constraints"
Sherry Robertson, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Writing His Way
Out: An Inmate’s Story of Survival"
Erin Alana Schroeder, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Education Justice Project Radio Show"
Rohn Koester, The Education Justice Project, Urbana, IL, "The Education
Justice Project Radio Show"
Rebecca Ginsburg, Education Justice Project, Urbana, IL, "Broadcasting
the Voices of Incarcerated University Students"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Giving the
Voiceless a Voice"
		

History

MW.04	Opening the Archives: Considering Questions of Access,
Space, and Connection(s)
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Co-Chairs: Katherine Tiribassi, Keene State College, NH
Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Newton, MA
Workshop Leaders: O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community
College, Canielson, CT
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, Tallahassee
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Margaret Strain, University of Dayton, OH
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University, CA
Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Denton
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Rodney Obien, Keene State College, NH
		

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

MW.05	Opening Doors for Multimodal Composers: Intellectual
Property and Fair Use in the Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Workshop Leaders: Scott Nelson, University of Texas at Austin
Jennifer Michaels, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Laurie Cubbison, Radford University, VA

66

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 66

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Lanette Cadle, Missouri State University, Springfield
Kyle Stedman, Rockford College, IL
		

Language

MW.06	Opening Spaces for Multilingual Students: Creating
Pathways for Transition
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Co-Chairs: Christina Ortmeier-Hooper, University of New Hampshire,
Durham
Haivan Hoang, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Deirdre Vinyard, Emily Carr University of Art and Design, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Workshop Leaders: Rebecca Lorimer Leonard, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Writing Centers as L2 Constant"
Heather Fitzgerald, Emily Carr University of Art and Design, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada, "Writing Centers as L2 Constant"
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "The Politics of
Transition"
Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "Facilitating Students’ Transition from First-Year L2 Writing to Writing in the Disciplines"
Deirdre Vinyard, Emily Carr University of Art and Design, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, "Writing Centers as L2 Constant"
Michael Schwartz, St. Cloud State University, MN, "The Politics of Transition"
		

Language

MW.07	Crossing BW/ESL/FYW Divides, II: Pedagogical and
Institutional Strategies for Translingual Writing
JW Marriott, Room 201, Second Floor
Workshop Leaders: Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY
Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Suresh Canagarajah, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Matt Noonan, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
John Trimbur, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Discussion Leaders: Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso
Juan Guerra, University of Washington, Seattle
Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University, Tempe
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	67

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 67

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Patricia Bizzell, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA
William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA
Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
		

Research

MW.08	Coding for Data Analysis
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Workshop Leaders: Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara
Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Jo Mackiewicz, Auburn University, AL
Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University, Lubbock

MW.09	Designing Undergraduate Research Projects and
Programs in Writing Studies
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Workshop Leaders: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Heather Bastian, The College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, MN
Leigh Ryan, University of Maryland, College Park
Lauren Fitzgerald, Yeshiva University, New York, NY
Tim Peeples, Elon University, NC
Joyce Kinkead, Utah State University, Logan
Patti Hanlon-Baker, Stanford University, CA
Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC
Holly Ryan, Penn State University-Burks

68

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 68

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

All-Day Wednesday Workshops
9:00–5:00 p.m.
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

	

Using Artifact-Based Interviews as an Approach to
Inquiry in Scenes of Teaching and Learning
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom X, Third Floor
Chair: Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, East Lansing Bump
Halbritter, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Lehua Ledbetter, Michigan State University, East Lansing Maria Novotny,
Michigan State University, East Lansing Kati Macaluso, Michigan State
University, East Lansing Mike Tardiff, Michigan State University, East
Lansing
Minh-Tam Nguyen, Michigan State University, East Lansing Shenika Hankerson, Michigan State University, East Lansing Matt Gomes, Michigan
State University, East Lansing
Institutional and Professional

W.01	 The Labor-Friendly Writing Program/Center
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Speakers: Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Vandana Gavaskar, Elizabeth City State University, NC
Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Timothy R. Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY
Brandon Fralix, Bloomfield College, NJ
Anicca Cox, North Dartmouth, MA
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

W.02	 Plagiarism as Educational Opportunity in an Increasingly
Open-Source Age
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Speakers: Robert Yagelski, State University of New York at Albany
Carole Papper, Hofstra University, Hempstead, NY
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University, OH
Gerald Nelms, Wright State University, OH

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	69

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 69

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

W.03	 Developing an Online Writing Course Initiative: Preparing
Teachers and Students
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Leslie Olsen, Bellevue University, WA
Jason Snart, College of DuPage, IL
Webster Newbold, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Speakers: Beth Hewett, University of Maryland University College,
Adelphi
Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, OH
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington Tacoma
Basic Writing

W.04	 Open Futures? Basic Writing, Access, and Technology:
Council on Basic Writing Pre-Conference Workshop
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, City University of New
York, NY
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA
Speakers: Anne-Marie Hall, University of Arizona, Tucson, "The 2013 Innovation Award for Teaching of Basic Writing"
Cruz Medina, Santa Clara University, CA, "The 2013 Innovation Award for
Teaching of Basic Writing"
Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona, Tucson, "The 2013 Innovation Award
for Teaching of Basic Writing"
Ben McCorkle, The Ohio State University at Marion, "MOOCs and Basic
Writing"
Steven Krause, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "MOOCs and Basic
Writing"
Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "MOOCs and Basic
Writing"
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University Purdue University Fort Wayne,
"MOOCs and Basic Writing"
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Dearborn, MI, "CBW Talks
Back"
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Hackensack, NJ, "Open Futures? Basic Writing, Access, and Technology"
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA, "Open Futures?
Basic Writing, Access, and Technology"

70

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 70

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

W.05	 TYCA PRESENTS Cracking the Books: Integrating
Reading and Writing in the Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Speakers: Suzanne Labadie, Oakland Community College, Royal Oak, MI,
"Raising the Bar for First-Year Readers and Writers in the Two-Year
College"
Dana Elder, Eastern Washington University, Cheney
Cheryl Hogue Smith, Kingsborough Community College, City University
of New York, NY, "Basic Writers as Critical Readers: Taming Chaotic
Thought through Metacognitive Revision"
Amiee Stahlman, University of New Mexico-Valencia, "Accelerating without Missing the Turns"
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin Marathon County
Patricia Hintz Gillikin, University of New Mexico-Valencia, "Integrating
Reading Pedagogy into Our Basic Writing Curriculum"
Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Community, Civic & Public

W.06	 Blurring Boundaries: Opening Rhetorical Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Lauren Rosenberg, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic
Emma Howes, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Nicole Khoury, American University of Beirut, Lebanon
Carrie Jo Coaplen, Morehead State University, KY
Shannon Mondor, College of the Redwoods, Eureka, CA
Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson
Moushumi Biswas, University of Texas at El Paso
Lauren Connolly, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe
Kirsti Cole, Minnesota State University, Mankato
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park
Gesa E. Kirsch, Bentley University, Waltham, MA
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, MD
Rebecca Dingo, University of Missouri, Columbia

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	71

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 71

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

W.07	 Accessing the Future of Writing Studies: Disruption and
Dialogue via International Higher Education Writing
Research
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, CT
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III, Hanover,
NH
This workshop features 37 research projects by 50 scholars representing 23
countries; all individual project titles and facilitator names and institutions
are available in the online program.
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

W.08	 Workshop on Language, Linguistics, and Writing
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Craig Hancock, University at Albany, NY
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, NY
Speakers: Airlie Rose, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Travelling
in the Space Between Disciplines: How Do We Navigate the Interdisciplinary Limbo?"
Nanette Wichman, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, "Exploring
Meaning, Structure, and Rhetorical Effect of Sentence Choices in a
Composition Classroom"
William Durden, Clark College, Vancouver, WA, "Expanding Dewritten
Passages to Explore Grammar and Meaning in Context"
Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, "Explicit Attention to Stance in a Writing Curriculum"
Joseph Salvatore, The New School, Jackson Heights, NY, "Approaches to
the Sentence in Creative and Expository Writing"
Rei Noguchi, California State University, Northridge, "Iconicity and Core
Principles of Writing"
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, NY, "Grammar as a Global
Concern across the Writing Process"
Craig Hancock, University at Albany, NY, "Corpus, Cognitive, Functional:
New Ways of Understanding Grammar and the Implications for Writing"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

W.09	 Writing War and Beyond: Continuing Dialogues of Military
Experience through Accessible Writing Opportunities
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Mariana Grohowski, Bowling Green State University, OH,
"Troubling Open Access: Research on Student Veterans’ Technological
72

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 72

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Literacies inside and outside the Academy"
Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Portsmouth, "Opening Communication about Wartime Narratives: Student Veterans’ Perspectives on
Teacher Feedback"
D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College, Meadville, PA, "Accessing Communities and Language"
Marion Wilson, University of California San Diego, "Research Writing
as Bridge Building: Student Veterans and the Upper Division Writing
Course"
Darren Keast, City College San Francisco, CA, "A Class for Vets, Not by
a Vet"
Amy Puffenberger, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Poster—"
Tanya Schardt, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Poster—"
Lydia Wilkes, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Accessing Faculty: Educating Our Colleagues about Student-Veterans"
Joanna Watt, University of Michigan, Kalamazoo, "Open Access through
Pedagogical Hospitality: What Unique Insights Can Student Veterans
Offer?"
Travis Martin, University of Kentucky, Richmond, "Narrativizing Traumatic Fragments: Writing Wartime Experience in the Classroom"
Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Discussion Leader: Sandra Jang, New York, NY, "Student Veterans and the
Human Condition"
Institutional and Professional

W.10	 Sing, Act, Engage: A Workshop on Performance,
Pedagogy, and Professional Development
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Speakers: Bob Lazaroff, Nassau County Community College, Garden City,
NY
David Hyman, Lehman College, City University of New York, Bronx
Shawn Garrett, Stony Brook University, NY
Lauren Esposito, State University of New York, Stony Brook
Nicole Galante, State University of New York, Stony Brook
Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, NY
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

W.11	 Sonic Pedagogies for the Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Steph Ceraso, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Kati Fargo Ahern, Long Island University, C.W. Post, NY
Jordan Frith, University of North Texas, Denton
Jonathan Stone, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Daniel Anderson, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	73

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 73

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Afternoon 1:30–5:00 p.m.
Information Technologies

AW.01	Flipping the Classroom: Philosophy, Pedagogy, Praxis,
and Production
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Speakers: Christina Grimsley, Texas Woman’s University, Denton
Chris Friend, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Susan Crisafulli, Franklin College, IN
Institutional and Professional

AW.02	Open(ing) Conversation: What Are the Threshold
Concepts of Composition?
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Discussion Leaders: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington
Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, IN
Speakers: J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Threshold Concepts in Writing Majors"
Kara Taczak, University of Denver, CO, "Threshold Concepts in Graduate
Education"
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Threshold
Concepts in Graduate Education"
John Majewski, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Threshold Concepts in Professional Development"
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ, "Threshold
Concepts in First-Year Composition"
Bradley Hughes, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Threshold Concepts
in the Writing Center"
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Threshold Concepts in
First-Year Composition"
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID, "Threshold Concepts in Outcomes-Based Undergraduate Education"
Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, "Threshold
Concepts in the Writing Center"

74

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 74

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Peggy O’Neill, Loyola University, Baltimore, MD, "Threshold Concepts in
Writing Assessment"
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Threshold Concepts in Writing Majors"
Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Threshold
Concepts in Professional Development"
Writing Programs

AW.03	Independent Writing Units: Exploring Options
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Speakers: Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Tempe
Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Justin Everett, University of the Sciences, Parkside, PA
Jeremy Schnieder, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA
Leslie Werden, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA
J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Cindy Moore, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore
Institutional and Professional

AW.04	Faculty Development and Composition Scholars:
Creating Campuswide Impacts and Expanding
Career Opportunities
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Speakers: Kimberly Emmons, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH
Susan K. Hess, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Geneva, NY
Claire Lamonica, Illinois State University, Normal
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Information Technologies

AW.05	From emma to Marca: Technology and Pedagogy in a
Decade of Open-Source Writing Software Development
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Chair: Christy Desmet, University of Georgia, Athens
Speakers: Robin Wharton, The Calliope Initiative, Inc., Atlanta, GA, "Intellectual Property and Privacy Concerns in Open Access Policy"
Christy Desmet, University of Georgia, Athens, "Teachers, Writers, and Developers Create Electronic Portfolios"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	75

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 75

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Deborah Miller, University of Georgia, Athens, "Technology and Pedagogy
in the Development of Writing Rubrics"
Elizabeth Davis, University of Georgia, Athens, "Technology and Pedagogy in the Development of Peer Review and Assessment"
Sara Steger, University of Georgia, Athens, "From Theory to Practice in
Open-Source Code Development"
Ron Balthazor, University of Georgia, Athens, "From Theory to Practice in
Open-Source Code Development"
Andrew Famiglietti, Bucknell University, Lewisburg, PA, "From Theory to
Practice in Open-Source Code Development"
Language

AW.06	Grammar for the Tongue, Grammar for the Eye
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Natalie Gerber, State University of New York, Fredonia
Tania Kouteva, Heinrich-Heine University, Duesseldorf, Germany
Research

AW.07	Open for Research: A Demonstration of Text Analysis
Applications and a Discussion of Library Collaboration
Opportunities
JW Marriott, Room 201, Second Floor
Workshop Leader: Nat Gustafson-Sundell, Minnesota State University,
Mankato
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

AW.08	Opening Up the Archives: Promoting Undergraduate
Research through Google Books
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Speakers: Lara Karpenko, Carroll University, Waukesha, WI
Lauri Dietz, DePaul University, Chicago, IL

76

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 76

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

AW.09	Teaching American Indian Rhetorics in all Rhetoric and
Composition Classrooms
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Speakers: Sundy Louise Watanabe, University of Utah, Salt Lake City,
"History and Sovereignty"
Lisa King, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, "History and Sovereignty"
Kimberli Lee, Northeastern State University, Tahlequah, OK, "Visual and
Musical Rhetorics"
Gabriela Raquel Ríos, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Visual
and Musical Rhetorics"
Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University, Normal, "Material and Digital
Rhetorics"
Ashley Glassburn Falzetti, Rutgers, Mount Holly, NJ, "History and Sovereignty"
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Material and Digital
Rhetorics"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA "CurriculumBuilding and Graduate Education"
Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Curriculum-Building and Graduate Education"
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "CurriculumBuilding and Graduate Education"
Community, Civic & Public

AW.10	In Search of Political Openings: (Re)Writing the Prison/
Education/Military Industrial Complex
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Speakers: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,
NY
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY
Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ
Ben Kuebrich, Syracuse University, NY
Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Discussion Leaders: Micah Savaglio, Long Island University, Brooklyn,
NY
Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder
Janina Perez, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Respondents: Jessica Pauszek, Syracuse University, NY
Rachael Shapiro, Syracuse University, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	77

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 77

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

AW.11	Exploring Latinidad in the Mid-West: A Workshop
Sponsored by the NCTE/CCCC Latino/a Caucus
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Co-Chair: Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Speakers: Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
Kendall Leon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Nancy Wilson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Elias Serna, University of California, Riverside
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University San Marcos
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, NY
Alexandra Hildalgo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Joelle Guzman, University of California, Riverside
Sara Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Language

AW.12	Access Denied: Digital Jim Crow and Institutional
Barriers to Open Access
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Speakers: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis
Bonnie Williams, California State University, Fullerton
Rashidah Jami` Muhammad, Governors State University, University Park,
IL
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
David Green, Howard University, Washinton, DC

78

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 78

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Language

AW.13	Opening Spaces for Multilingual Students: Curricular
Designs and Pedagogical Innovations for First-Year
Classrooms and Beyond
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor
Co-Chairs: Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso
Haivan Hoang, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Elisabeth Kramer-Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, "Enhancing Assessment
Practices in Multilingual Classrooms"
Daliborka Crnkovic, University of Texas at El Paso, "Fostering Metalinguistic Awareness through New Technologies"
Lindsey Ives, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Foregrounding
Language Experiences in Writing Assignments"
Pisarn Bee Chamcharatsri, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Designing Cross-Cultural Composition Classes"
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Designing CrossCultural Composition Classes"
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Multilingual Openings Beyond First-Year Writing: Into the (General) Curriculum"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	79

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 79

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 7:30 a.m.–6:00 p.m.

Thursday, March 20
REGISTRATION, 8:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
JW Marriott, Griffin Hall, Second Floor
EXHIBITS, 10:00 a.m.–6:00 p.m.
JW Marriott, Griffin Hall, Second Floor
Computer Connection/Digital Posters
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom Foyer, Third Floor
Newcomers’ Coffee Hour, 7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII/VIII/IX, Third Floor
Nominating Committee, 10:30 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
JW Marriott, Room 307, Third Floor

80

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 80

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Opening General Session
		JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom
		V/VI, Third Floor
		
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Presiding: Adam Banks, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, University of
Kentucky, Lexington
Greetings: Local Arrangements Chair, Tracy Donhardt, Indiana University
Purdue University, Indianapolis
Ernest Morrell, NCTE President, Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Andy Anderson, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS

Scholars for the Dream—2014 Recipients
Pauline Felicia Baird, Bowling Green State University, OH, K.20
April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, East Lansing, K.15
Amanda L. Funk, Kutztown University of Pennsylvania, C.14
Arianna M. Howard, The Ohio State University, Columbus, K.15
Luciana Junqueira, Georgia State University, Atlanta, M.30
Jennifer Lin LeMesurier, University of Washington, Seattle, K.15
Kyle T. Mays, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, M.15
Reanae McNeal, Texas Woman’s University, Denton, C.24
Ana Milena Ribero, University of Arizona, Tucson, K.15
Flourice W. Richardson, Illinois State University, Normal, C.18

Previous Scholars for the Dream Award Winners
2013
Jada Augustine, Catalina Bartlett, Tara Betts, Victor Jesus Del Hierro, Romeo Garcia, Michelle Garza, Laura Martinez, Indra N. Mukhopadhyay, Alma Villanueva

2012
Steven Alvarez, Erica Britt, Karen Ching Carter, Christina Victoria Cedillo, Marino
Ivo Lopes Fernandes, Juan M. Gallegos, Eileen Lagman, Helen Lee, Jimisha I. Relerford, LaToya L. Sawyer

2011
Sonia C. Arellano, Lamiyah Bahrainwala, Michael Sterling Burns, Lehua Ledbetter,
Kelly McLain, Caroline Prieto, Cheyenne Riggs, Elias Serna, Reva E. Sias

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	81

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 81

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

2010
Tamika Barrett, Eileen Ain Shams Eddy,R. Candace Epps-Robertson, Fernando
Febres, Regina L. Golar, ku’ualoha ho’omanawanui, Vivian García López, Brandy
Nalani McDougall, Cruz Medina, Gabriela Raquel Ríos

2009

Maryam Elena Jamali Ashtiani, Lina Buffington, Jason B. Esters, David F. Green,
Jr., Janie Jaramillo-Santoy, Marissa M. Juárez, Wen Ma, Sarah Nieto Olivas, Bettina
Ramón, Michelle Bachelor Robinson
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
scholarsforthedream

Scholars for the Dream Travel Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY
Jessica Barros, Ithaca College, NY
Marino Fernandes, University of New Hampshire, Durham
David Green, Howard University, Washington, DC
Keon Pettiway, North Carolina State University, Raleigh

To increase the participation of traditionally underrepresented groups—African
Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and other Latino
and Latina Americans, and American Indians—CCCC has established the Scholars
for the Dream Travel Awards. The awards celebrate the scholarly contributions of
first-time presenters at CCCC who are members of these groups. By providing some
funding for these scholars to travel to the Conference and to share their work with us,
we hope to make the term "underrepresented" past history.

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship—2014 Recipients
Elizabeth Ellis, University of Maryland, College Park
Jerry Won Lee, University of Arizona, Tucson
Travis L. Martin, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Shui-yin Sharon Yam, University of Wisconsin-Madison

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Akua Duku Anokye, Arizona State University West, Phoenix
Charles Bazerman, University of California Santa Barbara
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Staci M. Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Eric D. Pritchard, University of Texas at Austin

To remember and honor the Chairs of CCCC who have passed away, the CCCC
Executive Committee has created scholarships of $750 each to help cover the costs
of four graduate students who are presenting at the annual conference. Full-time
82

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 82

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

graduate students whose presentations were selected through the regular peer review
process are eligible for these scholarships.
Previous Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Winners
2013	 Nancy Bou Ayash, Marcos J. Del Hierro, Kendra L. Mitchell, Christie Toth
2012 	 Jessica Barros, Benjamin Miller, Vanessa Rouillon, Tanita Saenkhum
2011 	 Erin R. Anderson, Beth Godbee, Rebecca Lorimer, Ryan Trauman
2010 	 Iris Deana Ruiz, Jota Samper, Kyle D. Stedman, Kara Taczak
2009 	 Tabetha Adkins, Michael Harker, Susan Meyers, Ehren Pflugfelder
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
chairsscholarship

Announcement of the 2013-2014 CCCC Research Initiative
Recipients
The Effects of Explicit Instruction on Sentence Fluency and Style
Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska at Omaha, Keith Rhodes, Grand Valley State
University, and Star Medzerian Vanguri, Nova Southeastern University
Instructor Comments on Student Papers: Student Perspectives
Darsie Bowden, DePaul University
The Language Repertoires of First-Year Writers: A Cross-Institutional Study of Multilingual Writers
Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, Rebecca Lorimer Leonard, University
of Massachusetts Amherst, and Deirdre Vinyard, Emily Carr University of Art and
Design
The Genre Project: A Framework for Transfer Across the Disciplines
Jane Danielewicz and Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Mestiza Rhetors: An Anthology of Latina Rhetorical Activism in North America,
1880–1920
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, and Cristina Ramírez, University of Arizona
Tracing Chinese International Students’ Multilingual and Multimodal Literacy Practices in and across Translocal Contexts
Steve Fraiberg, Michigan State University, Xiaoye You, Pennsylvania State University, and Xiqiao Wang, Michigan State University
The University of Arizona Longitudinal Study of Student Writers
Amy Kimme Hea, Aimee Mapes, Kenny Walker, and Ana Milena Ribero, University
of Arizona
(Re)Writing Lila: Literacy Narratives of Reform from the New York State Training
School for Girls, 1920–1970
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy
and Health Sciences, and Edward Lessor, Colorado State University
Composing Disabled Faculty
Margaret Price, Spelman College, and Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	83

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 83

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Presentation of the Exemplar Award
This award is presented to a person who has served or serves as an exemplar of our
organization, representing the highest ideals of scholarship, teaching, and service to
the entire profession.
Gail E. Hawisher and Cynthia L. Selfe, winners of the 2014 CCCC Exemplar Award,
will speak.

Gail E. Hawisher

Cynthia L. Selfe

Exemplar Award Committee
Chair: 	 Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb
		
Sondra Perl, Lehman College, CUNY
		
Cecilia Rodriguez Milanes, University of Central Florida, Orlando
		
Duane Roen, Arizona State University, Tempe
Previous Award Winners:
2013 	 Keith Gilyard
2012	 Mike Rose
2011	 Edward M. White
2010 	 W. Ross Winterowd
2009 	 Victor Villanueva
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
exemplar

84

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 84

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Chair’s Address
		Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.
The Loss of the Public
Two Tales of Indiana

Awaken the public mind and consecrate it on the question, "Am I not interested in the proper education of all
that are socially and politically connected to me? "(Caleb Mills qtd in Worley 29)
I want to share with you two tales of Indiana. The first
focuses on the work of Caleb Mills, a New Englander
by birth but a man who would come to be known as the
Father of the Indiana public schools system. Mills came
to Indiana after having been appointed as the first faculty member at Wabash College. When he arrived in the
Howard Tinberg
Bristol Community
state, Mills found the condition of education there to be
College
deplorable. In a series of written declarations begun in
MA
1846, titled "One of the People" and submitted to the
Indiana State legislature, Mills painted a dire picture of
the state: Every district looked out for itself, a fact which proved devastating to the
so-called "common schools." One of Mills’s biographers notes,
While other institutions were becoming well organized and efficient, the
schools, under the domination of the ruinous idea of self-government, were
struggling hopelessly with unequal lengths of terms, incapable teachers,
dishonest trustees, diversity of textbooks, lax enforcement of school laws
and school discipline, neighborhood quarrels over school sites, narrow
views of’ education, and lack of wise leadership. (Worley 6–7)
But, for Mills, most unacceptable of all were the rates of illiteracy in the state: One
in every seven adults over 20 was unable to read and write, a figure in stark contrast
with the rates in other so-called "free" states, most conspicuously, Connecticut, New
Hampshire, and Massachusetts, which set the standard of literacy for the time. (Worley 25–26)
Given this state of affairs, Mills observes,
There is but one way to secure good schools, and that is to pay for them.
. . . Awaken the public mind and consecrate it on the question, "Am I not

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	85

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 85

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

interested in the proper education of all that are socially and politically connected to me"? (Worley 29).
Mills seems so sure of the answer to that question, although it should be stated that
he was swimming against the current here, as very few states at the time paid for its
schools with public money (Worley 19). Still, I’m struck with the apparent certainty
of his belief in a connectedness among citizens and that an imperative existed to care
for the educational needs of all. From the perspective of our own time, the notion has
acquired a degree of poignancy and is expressive of what has been lost.
Here’s a case in point: We flash forward to this headline offered on the blog of Diane
Ravitch, whom you may know as a principle architect of George W. Bush’s "No
Child Left Behind", but who has since turned into one of its most caustic critics:
"Indianapolis: Farewell to Public Education" (Ravich). "What is happening in Indianapolis is terrifying," she writes, "if you believe that public education belongs to
the public, not to private corporations." Deemed, through standardized testing, a low
performing school and allegedly plagued by financial problems, The Project School,
the lone progressive charter school in Indianapolis, was closed in August of 2012,
despite fierce resistance from parents and members of the community. Eagerly waiting in the wings to transform the school and the system as a whole, claims Ravitch,
are non-public entities dedicated to producing 21st century online learning centers
("The Truth Behind").
While Ravitch sees a conspiracy or corporate "take-over" of the public schools—
here and elsewhere—I wonder whether the lesson from this "Tale of Indiana" and
the other that preceded it is much more nuanced and more difficult. I wonder if the
answer to Mills’ question has changed and if the very connectedness among citizens
assumed by Mills can no longer be counted upon.Indeed, we might well question the
construct of the public in the first place, echoing John Dewey’s observations made	
so long ago, "(T)he public is so bewildered that it cannot find itself" (Dewey). Dewey was referring to the balkanization of communities in the Machine Age, but also
anticipating the fragmentation and isolation of the Digital Era. The fact is that while
we might be wary of various corporations and foundations for their intrusion into
public education—higher education most definitely included—the 800-pound gorilla
in the room, as it were, is not the corporate heavy but the spectral public itself, which
continues to withdraw its attention	 and resources from educational matters. If Inside Higher Ed informs me, that "In the decade before 2009, total operating expenditures at private research universities grew by an average of $14,000 per student while
those of community colleges grew by only $1" (Fain), or, close to home, I note that
state funding per student for higher education in Massachusetts has dropped nearly
50% since 2000 ("Per Student"), should I not revisit Mills’s question and cringe at
the consequences of doing so?

86

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 86

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

The Not So "Miserable Truth"
This field, our field, that I have gratefully considered my professional home for more
than a quarter of a century, has concerned itself through sound scholarship and engaged research with public work. Like the humanities generally, our discipline aims
to provide the means by which to determine who we are and where we belong. These
goals have a clear and significant public purpose, a public purpose which serves as a
foundational principle in our field.
Yet more work remains to be done, given the obstacles before us. This is a momentous time for public education and for literacy instruction that seeks to provide
public empowerment. I liken it in some ways to the pivotal year of 1976, the year
when Mina Shaughnessy gave a talk entitled "The Miserable Truth" in front of writing supervisors at CUNY. New York City’s dire financial crisis—near bankruptcy—
prompted wholesale retrenchment of many departments in the system, including the
basic writing program that Shaughnessy had been instrumental in leading. Open admissions was clearly being challenged: the writing was on the wall.
	
We face similar challenges, challenges which require our recommitment as a discipline to literacy education for all. Any attempt by this organization to make the case
for public re-engagement with higher education must begin with our own pledge to
recommit ourselves to the importance of literacy instruction at all levels, from basic
writer to graduate student. That means investing our own time, our own energy, and
our own expertise not only in preparing graduate students to teach composition and
rhetoric in a variety of settings, but also to reinvest in first-year composition and
basic writing courses ourselves and to assist, through meaningful mentoring, the contingent faculty who currently teach the bulk of those courses. To put it more bluntly:
whether we teach at a community college or	university, public or private institution,
we need to embrace the opportunity to teach all student writers, especially inexperienced writers, whose stories we need to hear. And we need to provide the much
needed support for those many part-time faculty who assist us in this important task.
Their stories matter, too.
Back in ’76, despite the many challenges and trials, Shaughnessy asserted her belief
that the "lion got out of the cage before the gates were shut" (112). All that was
learned about the teaching of writing will stay and be the basis of new knowledge.
All that these new students experienced will make them hunger for more. These students will not tolerate a return to the inequalities of the past. Nor should we.
Works Cited
Dewey, John. The Public and Its Problems: An Essay in Political Inquiry. Ed. Melvin
L. Rogers. University Park: Pennsylvania State UP, 1984. Kindle.
Fain, Paul. "Equity Gap Widens." Inside Higher Ed. 23 May 2013. Web. 10 July
2013
"Per Student Support for Massachusetts Public Higher Education FY 2000–FY
2012." PHENOM. n.d. Web. 9 July 2013.

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	87

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 87

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Ravitch, Diane. "Indianapolis: Farewell to Public Education." 18 Feb. 2013. Web.
14 June 2013.
Shaughnessy, Mina P. "The Miserable Truth." Journal of Basic Writing. 17.2 (1998).
106–112. Print.
Worley, Ralph. Educational Publications of Caleb Mills. Unpublished Diss. Indiana
State Teachers College. 1933. Print.

88

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 88

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

A Sessions: 10:30–11:45 a.m.
Open Access & Futures: An Undergraduate Researcher
Poster Session
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom Foyer, Third Floor
Chair: Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	89

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 89

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Featured Speaker

Angela Y. Davis
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Speaker: Angela Y. Davis, Berkeley, CA
Angela Y. Davis is known internationally for her ongoing work to combat all forms of oppression in the
U.S. and abroad. Over the years she has been active
as a student, teacher, writer, scholar, and activist/organizer. She is a living witness to the historical struggles
of the contemporary era.Professor Davis’s political
activism began when she was a youngster in Birmingham, Alabama, and continued through her high school
years in New York. But it was not until 1969 that she
came to national attention after being removed from
her teaching position in the Philosophy Department
Angela Y. Davis
at UCLA as a result of her social activism and her
Berkeley, CA
membership in the Communist Party, USA. In 1970
she was placed on the FBI’s Ten Most Wanted List on false charges, and was the
subject of an intense police search that drove her underground and culminated
in one of the most famous trials in recent U.S. history. During her sixteen-month
incarceration, a massive international "Free Angela Davis" campaign was organized, leading to her acquittal in 1972. Professor Davis’s long-standing commitment to prisoners’ rights dates back to her involvement in the campaign to
free the Soledad Brothers, which led to her own arrest and imprisonment. Today she remains an advocate of prison abolition and has developed a powerful
critique of racism in the criminal justice system. She is a founding member of
Critical Resistance, a national organization dedicated to the dismantling of the
prison industrial complex. Internationally, she is affiliated with Sisters Inside, an
abolitionist organization based in Queensland, Australia that works in solidarity with women in prison.Like many educators, Professor Davis is especially
concerned with the general tendency to devote more resources and attention to
the prison system than to educational institutions. Having helped to popularize the notion of a "prison industrial complex," she now urges her audiences
to think seriously about the future possibility of a world without prisons and
to help forge a 21st century abolitionist movement. During the last twenty-five
years, Professor Davis has lectured in all of the fifty United States, as well as
in Africa, Europe, the Caribbean, and the former Soviet Union. Her articles and
essays have appeared in numerous journals and anthologies, and she is the author of nine books, including Angela Davis: An Autobiography; Women, Race,
and Class; Blues Legacies and Black Feminism: Gertrude "Ma" Rainey, Bessie

90

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 90

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Smith, and Billie Holiday; The Angela Y. Davis Reader; Are Prisons Obsolete?; a
new edition of Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass; and The Meaning of
Freedom. Former California Governor Ronald Reagan once vowed that Angela
Davis would never again teach in the University of California system. Today she
is Distinguished Professor Emerita in the History of Consciousness and Feminist
Studies Departments at the University of California, Santa Cruz. In 1994, she received the distinguished honor of an appointment to the University of California
Presidential Chair in African American and Feminist Studies.

Academic Writing

A.01	 WAC and WID Reformulated: Alternative Programming,
Reading, Writing, and Assessment for Authentic
Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair: Hui Wu, University of Texas at Tyler
Speakers: Vi Dutcher, Eastern Mennonite University, Harrisonburg, VA,
"Common Writing Rubric and Assessment"
Elizabeth Tasker Davis, Stephen F. Austin State University, Nacogdoches,
TX, "The Quest for Authenticity in Composition Practices and Pedagogy"
Hui Wu, University of Texas at Tyler, "Opening English Sources to WAC:
Writing about the Disciplines"
Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi, University, "More than Possible:
The Benefits of a WID Approach to Writing Studies"
Emily Standridge, University of Texas at Tyler, "Students Analyzing Their
Own Texts"
Basic Writing

A.02	 Open Campuses, Open Futures: Creatively Re-Building
an Effective Basic Writing Program
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Chair: Heather Hummel, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Heather Hummel, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Mary Ellen Kubit, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Sue Bowling, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Jennifer Atkins-Gordeeva, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Joanne Liebman Matson, University of Arkansas at Little Rock

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	91

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 91

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

A.03	 Claiming the Past to Open Our Future: Language and
Rhetoric of Idle No More
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Chair: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Amanda Morris, Kutztown University, PA, "Creative Resistance:
Idle No More Combats a 500-Year-Old Cultural Debt"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Joining the
Round Dance: Rhetorical Indigenous Bodies of Protest"
Kenlea Pebbles, Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant, "Whose
Right?: A Linguistic Study of Competing Rights in Idle No More"
Community, Civic & Public

A.04	 Complicating Digital Citizenship: Research, Education,
and Engagement
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Michael Pennell, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Michael Pennell, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Complicated and Conflicted Data Collection Points: Capturing Digital Citizenship"
Timothy R. Amidon, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "The Cyber
Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA): How Might ‘Reasonable’ Threats to Privacy Impact Digital Citizenship?"
Joannah Portman Daley, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Public
Achievement through Digital Citizenship: Possibilities for Education
and Research"
Krysten Manke, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Public Achievement through Digital Citizenship: Possibilities for Education and Research"
J.C. Lee, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Complicating Digital Citizens’ Credibility: Experiential Knowledge and Self-Instruction in Digital Citizenry"
Jeremiah Dyehouse, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "John Dewey,
Horace Mann, and Historical and Conceptual Frameworks for Understanding Digital Citizenship"
Community, Civic & Public

A.05	 Critical Access, Deep Democracy, and Personal Agency
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Chair: Joyce Malek, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Alli Hammond, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Opening Pandora’s Box: When Multimodal Assignments Border on Dangerous"
Maria Sclafani, University of Colorado at Boulder, "A Campus Body Poli-

92

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 92

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

tic: The Relationship between Open Access and Protests on College
Campuses"
Donna LeCourt, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, "Redesigning Text
for Participatory Action: Critical Access and the Problem of the Public
in Digital Pedagogy"
Tom Kerr, Ithaca College, Syracuse, NY, "Slacktivism, Activism, and Open
Access Pedagogy"
Community, Civic & Public

A.06	 From Persuasion to Participation: Interactive Media and
Shifting Paradigms for Writing Studies
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
Chair: Deborah Brown, University of Central Oklahoma, Oklahoma City
Speakers: Erin Brock, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Civic Engagement Online, in the Classroom: Digital Petitions and Designing Participation"
Kathleen Coffey, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Designing for Interactivity: Mobile Technology and Civic Engagement"
Jonathan Bradshaw, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Information Age
Appalachia: Perspectives on Usability, Interface Design, and Enabling
Public Participation"
Community, Civic & Public

A.07	 Open Sources Serving the Education Community on the
Mexican-American Border
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Gordon Lee, Lee College, Baytown, TX
Speakers: Kay Mooy, University of Texas at El Paso
Diana Talamantes-Mooy, Socorro Independent School District, El Paso, TX
Bruce Mooy, Socorro Independent School District, El Paso, TX
History

A.08	 The Rhetoricity of Public Memory: Accessing "the Past"
through Museums and Memorials
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Frankie Condon, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Lisa Mastrangelo, The College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, NJ,
"Layers of Re(Created) Memory: Accessing Laura Ingalls Wilder"
Wendy Sharer, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, "Layers of
Re(Created) Memory: Accessing Laura Ingalls Wilder"
Jane Hindman, Queensborough Community College, New York, NY, "Description and Disruptions: Native American Students’ Autoethnographic
Texts"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	93

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 93

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Amy Gerald, Winthrop University, Rock Hill, SC, "Disrupting the Politics
of Silence: Reinscribing Sarah and Angelina Grimké into Public Memory"
History

A.09	 "The things they left behind": Toward an Object-Oriented
History of Composition
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Chair: Jason Palmeri, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Speakers: Jason Palmeri, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Particles and
Milkweed Pods: An Ontological History of the Process Movement"
Ben McCorkle, The Ohio State University at Marion, "From Stereoscope to
Super 8: Data Visualization, Distant Reading, and Composition History"
Kevine Rutherford, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "From Historiography to Ontography: Reassembling Composition History"
Writing Programs

A.10	 A Badge of Dichotomous Language: Representing and
Employing Assessment in Ambiguous Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Elizabeth Dennis, East Carolina University, Barton College, Battleboro, NC
Speakers: Judith Fourzan-Rice, University of Texas at El Paso, "Undoing
the Bias against Assessment: Creating a Climate of Assessment in the
Ambiguous Spaces between Language Dichotomies"
Sarah Brown, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "The Girl Scout Career
Model: Open Badging and Representations of Learning"
Paul Anheier, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "Semi-Automatic Feedback
Machine: Employing Modular Comments in Writing-Intensive Classrooms"
Lori De Hertogh, Washington State University, Pullman, "From Theory to
Praxis: A Critical Look at Digital Badges for Alternative Assessment in
Professional Writing Classrooms"
Information Technologies

A.11	 Assessment and Automation: Robograders, Automated
Essay Scoring (AES) Software, and Gradework
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Aimee Jones, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Devon Hackelton, University of California, Riverside, "Across
the Grade Divide: An Open Critique of Turnitin’s Grademark Functionality"

94

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 94

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Carl Whithaus, University of California, Davis, "Opening the Boxes: How
Automated Essay Scoring (AES) Software Works—and Doesn’t"
Daniel Mahala, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "Resisting the Robograder Within: The Drive towards Hyper-Normalized Readers in Writing
Assessment"
Theory

A.12	 Composing Agriculture and (Post)Industry
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Kristian Stewart, University of Michigan Dearborn
Speakers: Abby Wilkerson, George Washington University, Washington,
DC, "Family Farm Rhetoric, Food Justice, and Rhetorical Agency"
Moushumi Biswas, University of Texas at El Paso, "Opening Spaces in Resistance Discourse: A Case Study of Discursive Resistance to Monsanto"
Michael Salvo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Writing Postindustrial Futures: Reporting Research from New Manufacturing Sites"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.13	 Composition in/and Digital Humanities: Data, Software,
Architecture
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Chair: Justin Whitney, The University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Lindsay Illich, Curry College, Milton, MA, "Primary Sources:
Replicable, Aggregable, Data-Driven (RAD) Research in a WritingAbout-Writing Composition Course"
Drew Holladay, University of Louisville, KY, "Composition Pedagogy,
Critical Literacy, and the Digital Architecture of Institutions"
Caitlan Spronk, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Programming
Composition: Digital Humanities and Big Data"
Brad Herzog, Saginaw Valley State University, MI, "’Free Speech, not Free
Beer’: What the Free Software Movement Can Teach Us about Making
Higher Education and Our Professional Knowledge More Accessible"
Information Technologies

A.14	 Opening Digital Rhetoric: Beyond Persuasion
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Christine Jeansonne, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
Speakers: Sergio Figueiredo, Kennesaw State University, GA, "The Means
of Perception: Notes Toward a Digitally Specific Rhetoric"
Wendi Sierra, St. John Fisher College, Fairport, NY, "Building the Classroom Landscape: Minecraft in the Composition Classroom"
Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College, Bethlehem, "Gaming, Composition,
and the New Memory Work"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	95

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 95

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

A.15	 Opening Gates and Closing Minds: 3 Views of Online
Democracy at Work
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: David Seitz, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Speakers: Adam Kuchta, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Public
Pedagogy, Collective Intelligence, and Digital Culture: Binocular Evaluation of Agency, Resistance, and Control in Electronic LEGO Fan Communities"
Meghan Finley, Cincinnati, OH, "Blogs, Webcomics, and Convergence:
Science Popularizations and Evolving Forms of Scientific Discourse"
Stephen Bush, Fairborn, OH, "Behind Wall of Prejudice: How Internet Filter Bubbles Frustrate Agonistic Discourse Online"
Institutional and Professional

A.16	 Ain’t We Compositionists?: The M.A. Compositionist and
Other Adjunct Subjectivities
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: Charlotte Hyde, Purdue University, Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Gina Hanson, University of Redlands, CA
Maggie Cecil, California State University, San Bernardino
Chloe de los Reyes, California State University, San Bernardino
Institutional and Professional

A.17	 By All Available Means: Collaboration, Innovation, and
Retention in First-Year Composition Online Learning
Environments
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Sherry Rankins-Robertson, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Mark Isbell, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "More than
Recruiting—Methods for Retaining Online Learners"
Joshua Johnson, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Using OpenSource Technologies for 21st Century Literacies"
Betty Freeland, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "New Visions for
Preparing Online Teachers and Learners"
Sherry Rankins-Robertson, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Partnerships that Drive Curriculum and Faculty Response"
Dona Bailey, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Educating Online
Educators and Regulating Labor Conditions"

96

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 96

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

A.18	 The WPA Census: What Do The Numbers Tell Us?
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Jill Gladstein, Swarthmore College, PA
Speakers: Jill Gladstein, Swarthmore College, PA, "From Apples to Oranges: Deciding which Variables to Consider when Crafting National
and Local Arguments about Writing Program Design"
Dara Regaignon, Pomona College, Claremont, CA, "Local Context, Best
Practices, and Big-Picture Empirical Data"
Jennifer Wells, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Hidden in Plain
Sight: What the WOA Census Reveals about Writing Centers and Writing Center Directors"
Brandon Fralix, Bloomfield College, NJ, "MSIs and Basic Writing: An
Empirical Examination of Basic Writing Practices at Minority-Serving
Institutions"
Institutional and Professional

A.19	 Undergraduate Writing: Digital Media and Writing in the
Disciplines
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Christa Teston, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Kathleen Jernquist, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, Foster, RI,
"Opening Access: When Writing Centers and Faculty Across Campus
Communicate about (the) Composing Identities of Future Colleagues"
Oriana Gatta, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Open to Question: The Digital Media Program Archive and What’s (Not) Being Said about Pedagogy"
Nicole Galante, State University of New York, Stony Brook, "Open(ing)
Fourth Space: Reflective, Communal Teaching and Learning"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.20	 Critical Junctures: Exploring Different Sites of Learning
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Jessica Nastal, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Nicole Khoury, American University of Beirut, "Peripheral Participation: Graduate Writing Groups as Rhetorical Spaces for Disciplinary Access"
Rebecca Robinson, Arizona State University, Tempe,"FYC and Metadiscourse: Unlocking Disciplinary Source Codes"
Sunny Hawkins, University of Southern Indiana, Evansville, "Off-Center:
Confronting Identity Politics in Secondary/Post-Secondary Writing Center Collaborations"
Oliver Brearey, University of Maryland, College Park, "Advancing the Discussion of Threshold Concepts: Decoding the Disciplines, Critical Junctures, and Students’ Attainment of Rhetorical Awareness"
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	97

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 97

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.21	 Cultural and Material Rhetorics: Redefining Our Concepts
of Rhetoric
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Julia Wagner, Montclair State University, NJ
Speakers: James Knippling, University of Cincinnati, OH, "How Pop Got
Punked; The Polyphonic Rhetoric of Popular Music"
Vanessa Sohan, Florida International University, Miami, "Beyond Classroom Walls: Exploring Material/Cultural Rhetorics through Interdisciplinary Partnerships"
Erin Cahill, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Adding One More ‘C’:
An Illustrative Argument for Comics as a Scholarly Medium"
Susanna Engbers, Kendall College of Art and Design, Grand Rapids,
MI,"The Promises and Pitfalls of Branding as Ethos"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.22	 Multimodal Composing: Perspectives from across the
Disciplines
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Brent Simoneaux, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Robin Snead, University of North Carolina-Pembroke, "Broadening Cross-Contextual Perspectives on Multimodality"
Brent Simoneaux, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Mapping the
Landscape of Multimodality"
Keon Pettiway, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Defining Multimodality across the Disciplines"
Writing Programs

A.23	 Teaching in and through the Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
Chair: Jessie Richards, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Donald Jones, University of Hartford, CT, "Teaching Source Citation as the Postmodern Practice of Fair Use"
Cassandra Book, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY, "The Other C: Integrating Pedagogical Practices from the Disciplines of Composition and
Communication into an Introduction to Public Speaking Course"
Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Designing and Administering a Vertical Community-Engaged Rhetoric and Composition Curriculum"
Bradley Wiggins, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith, "Composition and
Communication (and Communication): A Multi-Disciplinary Approach
to a Multi-Modal Future for Composition and Journalism"

98

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 98

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Joe Hardin, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith, "Composition and Communication (and Communication): A Multi-disciplinary Approach to a
Multi-modal Future for Composition and Journalism"
Theory

A.24	 Communicating from China: English Writing and Resisted
Code
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: Maha Alawdat, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Yue Chen, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "China’s Graduate Students as the New Intellectual Partners in Composition Studies"
Xinqiang Li, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "The Realistic Features of English Writing through Chinese Students’ Eyes—a Pilot Study"
Language

A.25	 Investigating Translingual Practices: History, Theory, and
Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: LuMing Mao, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Speakers: LuMing Mao, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Weiguo Qu, Fudan University, China, Shanghai
Bo Wang, California State University, Fresno
Respondent: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
Professional and Technical Writing

A.26	 Opening Professional and Technical Writing to ClientCommunity Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
Chair: Geoffrey Clegg, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Speakers: Elisabeth Kramer-Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, "Technical Communication Internships as Sites of Learning and Knowledge
Transformation"
Elizabeth Tomlinson, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Producing
Client Projects in the Business Communication Course by Scaffolding"
Kyle Mattson, University of Central Arkansas, Conway, "Counter-Assemblages: A Model of Advocatory Organizations Working Together"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	99

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 99

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Research

A.27	 Enabling Discourses: Activity Theory and Genre Transfer
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
Chair: Beverly Moss, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Darci Thoune, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, "As If I Were
Writing a Paper: Using Activity Theory to Understand the Genre Uptakes of Writing Assignments"
Bryan Kopp, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, "As If I Were Writing a
Paper: Using Activity Theory to Understand the Genre Uptakes of Writing Assignments"
Brett Griffiths, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Enabling Discourses:
How Classroom Interactions Can Position Historically Disadvantaged
Students for Success"
Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ, "Multilingual
Writers as Legitimate Peripheral Participants: Learning in the Liminal
Space"
Research

A.28	 First-Year Composition in the 21st Century: Is There
Evidence of a Shift to Orality?
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: Sandra Gollin-Kies, Benedictine University, Lisle, IL
Speakers: Sandra Gollin-Kies, Benedictine University, Lisle, IL, "Markers
of ‘Orality’ in Lexical Verb Choice in First-Year Composition "
Daniel Kies, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL, "The FYC Corpus: An
Introduction and Overview, with Preliminary Findings"
Olga Lambert, Benedictine University, Lisle, IL, "A Shift in Personal Pronoun Use over Time in First-Year Composition"
Research

A.29	 Shifting the Conversation: Algorithms, Media Multitasking,
and Student Engagement
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Elizabeth A. Monske, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Speakers: Jane Fife, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, "Technology and the Scene(s) of Writing: Reassessing the Solitary, the Social,
and the Efficient in Our Composing Habits"
Heidi Harris, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Shifting the Conversation from ‘Cents’ to ‘Sense’: Using Data regarding Student Satisfaction
in Online Courses to Support Student Engagement"
Patricia Portanova, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Researching
the Impact of Access to Technology: A Quasi-Experimental/Multimodal
Study of Media Multitasking and Student Writing"

100

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 100

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Gustav Verhulsdonck, University of Texas at El Paso, "Algorithms, Symbols, Information: Algorithms as Digital Rhetoric and Procedural Communication"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.30	 Accessing the Creative Spirit in First-Year Composition
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Nolan Chessman, City University of New York Graduate Center,
Brooklyn
Speakers: Normandy Sherwood, New York University, Brooklyn, NY,
"Holding on, Letting go: Collaborative Creative Writing Technique in
the Composition Classroom"
Peter Gray, Queensborough Community College-City University of New
York, "The Inexperienced Writer Is Not that Different from Us"
Nolan Chessman, City University of New York Graduate Center, Brooklyn,
"Basic Writing as a Happening: Poet-Teachers in the Age of Open Admissions"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.31	 Digitally-Mediated Peer Review in Multimodal Composition Courses: Implications for Writing Pedagogies
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor
Chair: Susan Pagnac, Central College, Pella, IA
Speakers: Erin Zimmerman, Iowa State University, Ames
Kathy Rose, Iowa State University, Ames
Eric York, Iowa State University, Ames
Susan Pagnac, Central College, Pella, IA
Respondent: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.32	 Exploring New Applications of Arts and Media in the
Composition Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: Elmar Hashimov, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Speakers: Elmar Hashimov, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Exploring
New Applications of Arts and Media in the Composition Classroom"
Bridget Gelms, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Moving Images as
Texts: Reading/Writing with/about Film"
Stephanie Hedge, State University of New York at Potsdam, "Music and/as
Social Interaction in FYC"
Patrick Clauss, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Ampliative Inferences, The
Wire, and The Teaching of Argument"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	101

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 101

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.33	 Fulfilling the Promise of the Writing Portfolio: Opening
Writing Assessment for Student-Writers
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
Chair: Brian Huot, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Elliot Knowles, Kent State University, OH
Jeffrey Perry, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany
Curt Greve, Kent State University, OH
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.34	 Opening Minds in Open Access Classrooms: AlternateReality Gaming as Bakhtinian Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Chair: Robert Murdock, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, OH
Speakers: Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, OH,
"There’s a Winner Every Time: Grading and Programmatic Assessment
in the ARG Classroom"
Kevin Oberlin, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, OH, "Come
One, Come All: Collaboration in the ARG Classroom"
Robert Murdock, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, OH, "Shaping the Patterns of Play: ARG Course Design"
Theory

A.35	 Genre Evolution, Emergence, and Transfer:
How Important Is Technology?
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII, Third Floor
Chair: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
Speakers: E. Ashley Hall, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "New
Media Personal Essays: A Case of an Emerging Genre"
Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "New Media
Personal Essays: A Case of an Emerging Genre"
Ashley Rose Kelly, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Rhetorical
Accommodation and Open Access Publishing"
Carolyn Miller, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Revisiting Two
Case Studies of Genre Emergence: Early American Presidential Oratory
and the Environmental Impact Statement"

102

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 102

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

A.36	 Open Access to Multilingual Composition: Case Studies
of Teachers and Students
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Speakers: Aylin Baris Atilgan, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
"Open Dialogue with American Instructors on the Needs of First-Year
Composition International Students"
Yu-Shan Fan, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Open Access to Chinese International Students’ Educational Background in Composing in
China"
Laura Gonzales, Michigan State University, Orlando, FL, "Quiet Engagement: The Rhetoric of Silence in Multilingual Composition"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

A.37	 The Beautiful Struggle: Futuristic Visions of an Inclusive
Academy through Hip Hop, Autoethnography, and RapGeniuses
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor
Chair: Marcos Del Hierro, Texas A&M College Station
Speakers: Marcos Del Hierro, Texas A&M College Station, "Towards a
Hip Hop Rhetorics Approach in Rhetoric and Composition"
Catalina Bartlett, Texas A&M University College Station, " ‘You Had Me at
‘Open’’: How Autoethnography Bridges the Worlds of Creative Writing,
Cultural Rhetorics, and Composition in the College Classroom"
Victor Del Hierro, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Digital Bombers: Rewriting the Rhetorics of Digital Composition"
Community, Civic & Public

A.38	 Open(ing) Wounds: Accessing Trauma in the Classroom
and Community
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Meg Scott-Copses, College of Charleston, SC, "Rupturing Memory: Access and Trauma in At-Risk Communities"
Sarah Blomeley, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, "In Loving Memory:
Public Grief and the Future of Mourning in America"
Amy Hodges Hamilton, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, "When Access
to the Personal Becomes Pedagogical: Childhood Cancer and the Composition Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	103

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 103

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B Sessions: 12:15–1:30 p.m.
Featured Session

The Shame Tree Dead
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Chair: Rhea Estelle Lathan, Florida State University,
Tallahassee, FL
It’s a cliché that experience is the best teacher, yet experience is a teacher from whom many fail to learn. This
panel features Elaine Richardson discussing her compelling and honest book, "Phd to Phd: How Education
Saved My Life". Richardson’s "Bio-edu-ography" demonstrates more than simply struggling through freshman
Elaine Richardson
English courses at Cleveland State University or having
a professor humiliate her writing. Education is how she
had to learn who she was and turn that into victory over the shame, which attempts to "mark" women in our culture. Mostly, this panel is about women’s
literacy. Presenters include real women living in Atlanta, Chicago and Jacksonville. They are women who take our classes, and fill our faculty appointments,
but who are deeply aware of their own processes of learning and development;
and the obstacles educators’ use to shame them. It is not, then, about the literacy of abstract, theoretical women, or of African American women, or even
of women who are or have had substance abuse issues—though the women here
fall into those categories.
	 Because much of what we call education is still concerned with passing on
conclusions rather than facilitating the process of discovery, this panel facilities a
discussion on what it takes to look at the familiar and then to go on to say "this is
not the only possible way" or "this is not how it has to be". Participants will account for circumstances where literacy experiences—negative and positive—are

Rhea Estelle
Lathan

Hope Ealey

Rhonda DeShields

104

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 104

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

converted to wisdom and commitment, and translated to forms whereby they
can be an open source of pride not shame. Ultimately this panel will attempt to
dismantle the traditional hierarchies of higher education that work against this
kind of openness, adhering to the obsolete notion that academics "should" work
only with objective fact and without personal involvement.
	 A multidimensional personality, Dr. Elaine Richardson (Dr. E) is living out
all of her dreams. She shares her story of recovery from addiction, abuse and
sexual exploitation to renowned Professor of Literacy Studies at The Ohio State
University, in her urban educational memoir PHD (Po H# on Dope) to Ph.D.:
How Education Saved My Life. An accomplished vocalist and performer, Dr. E’s
forthcoming CD, Songs For the Struggle is the musical counterpart to the book.
In addition to being a recording artist, educator and author, Dr. E performs a
One Woman Show based on excerpts from her book. She speaks and performs
around the country to inspire love, hope and empowerment. She began writing
songs, after graduating from Cleveland State University in 1993. She earned a
Ph.D. in English and Applied Linguistics from Michigan State University in
1996. She has held academic posts at the University of Minnesota, as well as
Pennsylvania State University before joining the faculty at The Ohio State University. She is a graduate of the Cleveland Public Schools, East Technical High,
Class of 1978. She is a mentor to youth and young scholars and belongs to a network of Hiphop educators, promoting empowered education for social equality.
Speakers:
Elaine Richardson
The Ohio State University, Columbus
Walonza Lee
Hope Ealey
Dekalb Community Service Board, Decatur, GA
Ronda L. DeShields
Veterans Health Administration, Jacksonville, FL

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	105

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 105

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

B.01	 CopyCats: Open-Source Approaches to Plagiarism
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Chair: LauraAnne Carroll-Adler, University of Southern California, Granada Hills
Speakers: Scott Johnson, Oakton Community College, Northbrook, IL,
"‘Proprietary (Hard)ware is an Injustice’: BYOD, Mobile Computing,
and the Struggle against Control in the College Writing Classroom"
Valerie Seiling Jacobs, Columbia University, Westport, CT, "Beyond Plagiarism: Using Sources Responsibly in an Increasingly Open-Source
World"
Shannon Howard, University of Louisville, KY, "‘Please Reblog. Don’t
Copy and Paste’: How Tumblr’s Rhetoric Promotes Citation Systems
and a They Say/I Say Model of Discourse in Online Spaces"
Stephanie Roach, University of Michigan-Flint, "The Disservice of ‘Just
Say No’ Approaches to Plagiarism"
Community, Civic & Public

B.02	 An Open World: Transnational Perspectives on Writing
and Rhetoric
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Chair: Carol D. Bollin, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Speakers: Nora McCook, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Literacy
and Human Rights: Access without Autonomous Literacy"
James Daniel, University of Texas at Tyler, "Transnational Communities
and the Writing of Love"
Jennifer Nish, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Interrupting a Revolution:
Examining the Transnational Discourse of ‘The Uprising of Women in
the Arab World’"
Community, Civic & Public

B.03	 Digital Literacy in Rural Lives: Examining the
Intersections of Place, Access, and Literate Practice
in the Lives of Six Rural Women
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
Chair: Jennie Vaughn, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Allen Harrell, Alabama Southern Community College, Jackson,
"Digital Literacy, Access, and the Library: Community-Based Computer
Courses as a ‘Gateway’ to Access in Rural Areas"

106

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 106

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Amy Dayton, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Student, Parent, Worker, Writer: The Role of Digital Literacy in Shaping Women’s Identities"
Jennie Vaughn, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Un-Schooled Digital
Literacy: The Role of Self-Taught Digital Literacy in Extracurricular and
Professional Lives"
Information Technologies

B.04	 Forming Coalitions: Digital Democracies and the
Integration of Social Activism
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Jennifer Mallette, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Speakers: Kathryn Perry, University of Louisville, KY, "The Social and
Pedagogical Significance of Narrative Continuity in the Freedom School
Curriculum"
Clarissa Walker, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Light as a Rock:
The African Diaspora Blogger as a Wielder of ‘Soft Power’"
Dhruba Neupane, University of Waterloo, Kitchener, Ontario, Canada,
"Listening to ‘The Digital Third World:’ Probing the Preconditions of
Digital Democracy"
Community, Civic & Public

B.05	 Opening Up, Opening Out: New Publics, New Futures for
Composition’s Public Intellectuals
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Rachel Bloom, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Speakers: Susan Meyers, Seattle University, WA, "The Researcher as Public Intellectual: Transnational Ethnography and Political Danger in the
Public Sphere"
Frank Farmer, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "The (Counter) Public Intellectual: A Preliminary Sketch"
Star Medzerian, Nova Southeastern University, Ft. Lauderdale, FL, "Scholarship as Intellectual Partnership: Open Access Publishing and the Future’s Public Intellectual"
Paul Butler, University of Houston, TX, "Going Public: Effecting Change
through Public Discourse, Innovative Curricula, and Community/Technological Outreach"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	107

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 107

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

B.06	 PROYECTO CARRITO: When the Student Receives an
A and the Worker Gets Fired: Disrupting the Political
Economy of Translingual Rhetorical Mobility
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Speakers: Ernesto Mario Osorio, Emerson College, Boston, MA,
"PROYECTO CARRITO: A Janitor’s Perspective"
Eric Sepenoski, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "PROYECTO CARRITO:
An MFA’s and Farmer’s Perspective"
Bianca Padro, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "PROYECTO CARRITO: A
Puerto Rican Undergraduate’s Perspective"
Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "PROYECTO CARRITO:
A Trilingual Teacher’s Perspective"
Creative Writing

B.07	 Navigating the Online Creative Writing Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Joseph Rein, University of Wisconsin-River Falls
Speakers: Joseph Rein, University of Wisconsin-River Falls, "Lifting the
Digital Curtain: Fostering Persona, Identity, and Authority in the Online
Creative Writing Classroom"
Janelle Adsit, State University of New York-Albany, "Giving an Account
of Oneself: Teaching Identity Construction and Authorship in Creative
Nonfiction and Social Media"
Aviva Cristy, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Finding Creative Spaces in Online Classrooms"
History

B.08	 Higher Learning and Historical Class Bifurcations
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Chair: Sarah Perrault, University of California Davis
Speakers: Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Mass
Literacies, Mass Inculcation: From Mental Hygiene Films to MOOCs"
M. Karen Powers, Kent State University at Tuscarawas, OH, "’Brains and
Brawn’: The Humanities, Differential Tuition, and the Historical Vocationalism of the Working Class"
Amy Lueck, University of Louisville, KY, "The Mind and Body of Higher Learning: Tracing the Institutional Location of (Gendered) Manual
Training in Nineteenth-Century High Schools"

108

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 108

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

History

B.09	 Voices from the Asian/Asian American Caucus: Opening
Up Our Disciplinary History and Scholarship
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Chair: Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "What Can
Asian Eyelids Teach Us about Rhetoric and Writing?: A Culturally Reflexive Framework for Multimodal Representations of Bodies"
Linh Dich, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "The United States of Ambivalence: International Students as Sources of Income and Difference"
K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University, PA, "Ruptures, Wounds, Possibilities: Asian/Asian American Disciplinary History and Scholarship"
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Ruptures, Wounds, Possibilities: Asian/Asian American Disciplinary History
and Scholarship"
Respondent: Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno, Fresno
Information Technologies

B.10	 Applying the CCCC’s Effective Practices of Online Writing
Instruction in the Virtual Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Jill Heney, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Jill Heney, Boise State University, ID, "Strategies for Effective
and Efficient Feedback to Student Writing Online"
Melissa Keith, Boise State University, ID, "The Training and Ongoing Professional Development of an Online Writing Lab Staff"
Leslie Jewkes, College of Western Idaho, Nampa, "Strategies for Effective
and Efficient Feedback to Student Writing Online"
Stephanie Cox, Boise State University, ID, "Blending Migration and Innovation in the Online Writing Classroom"
Jennifer Black, Boise State University, ID, "Blending Migration and Innovation in the Online Writing Classroom"
Information Technologies

B.11	 Composition MOOCs and Pedagogy by the Thousands:
Reflections on Four Open Education Innovations
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII, Third Floor
Chair: Joe Moxley, University of South Florida, Tampa
Speakers: Joe Moxley, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Writing Commons, the Open-Education Home for Writers"
Karen Head, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, "Composition MOOC: First-Year
Composition 2.0"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	109

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 109

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Rebecca Burnett, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, "Composition MOOC: First-Year
Composition 2.0"
Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Composition MOOC:
Writing II: Rhetorical Composing"
Denise Comer, Duke University, Raleigh, NC, "Composition MOOC 1:
English Composition 1: Achieving Expertise"
Theory

B.12	 Issues of Accessibility and Technology in the Writing
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Chair: James Truman, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Lorna Nelson, Central Virginia Community College, Lynchburg,
"Using Speech Recognition Software for College Writing"
Thomas Reynolds, Northwestern State University of Louisiana, Natchitoches, "Using Speech Recognition Software for College Writing"
Chad Iwertz, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Becoming (Dis)abled:
Writing Technologies and the Culture of Capability in the Classroom"
Kimberly Elmore, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Towards a Rhetorology for Autism Advocacy: Negotiations of Voice and Rhetorical Listening in Public Dialogue"
Janelle Wiess, University of Michigan-Flint, "To AV or not to AV?: Issues
of Accessibility in Online Writing Instruction"
Information Technologies

B.13	 Open Access and Institutional Technology
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Rossina Liu, University of Iowa, Iowa City
Speakers: James Schirmer, University of Michigan-Flint, "Institutionware"
Stuart Selber, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, "How
Accessible Are Campus IT Departments?"
Mary Wendt, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant, "Walking the
Walk: The Institutionalization of Digital Literacy"
Information Technologies

B.14	 Teaching and Talking in Code: Pedagogical Partnerships
with Computer Science
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair: Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Speakers: Wei Zhang, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "The
Multifaceted Communication within Citizen Science Collaborations"

110

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 110

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Robert Pastel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "From Lichens to Linux: Facilitating Collaboration between Technical Communication and Computer Science Courses"
Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "From Lichens to Linux: Facilitating Collaboration between Technical Communication and Computer Science Courses"
Leo Ureel II, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "Digital Literacy for Elders: An Open Online Experience"
Lauren Bowen, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "Sister
Seminars: Multidisciplinary Approaches to Digital Literacy and Design"
Charles Wallace, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "Online at
the Library: Reflections on an Outreach Program"
Information Technologies

B.15	 Wikipedia: Discourse, Collaboration, and Sophistic
Rhetoric
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Sarah Marshall, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Jeff Kirchoff, Millikin University, Decatur, IL, "Wikipedians as
Sophists: Doxa, Kairos, and Techne in Wikipedia"
Celeste Berrington, Concordia University Wisconsin, "Contributing to Networked Writing: Communication and Collaboration with the World outside of the Academy"
Melanie Kill, University of Maryland, Washington, DC, "Writing Wikipedia in Class: Specialist Knowledge, Public Audience, and Wikipedian
Discourse"
Institutional and Professional

B.16	 Composition in the Age of Austerity
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
Chair: Lil Brannon, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Speakers: Tom Fox, California State University, Chico
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	111

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 111

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

B.17	 Opening Communities of Discourse and Practice:
Using Professional Learning Communities to Support
Contingent Faculty
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: Judith Livingston, Columbus State University, GA
Speakers: Judith Livingston, Columbus State University, GA
Whitney Hachinsky, Columbus State University, GA
Erinn Bentley, Columbus State University, GA
Institutional and Professional

B.18	 Opening Up the Faculty Club: Educating New Teachers
for 21st Century Change
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Cindy Crimmins, York College of Pennsylvania, "Opening Up
the Faculty Club: Engaging New Faculty in Ongoing Pedagogical Discussions"
Margaret Twigg, American University, Washington, DC, "Opening Up the
Faculty Club: Transitioning from Queer Student to Teacher Queering the
Composition Classroom"
Janet Auten, American University, Washington, DC, "Opening Up the Faculty Club: Making Sense of Teaching for Future Faculty"
Respondent: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
Institutional and Professional

B.19	 Unten(ur)able Positions: Re-Theorizing WPAs from the
Margins
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: Talinn Phillips, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Talinn Phillips, Ohio University, Athens
Paul Shovlin, State University of New York-Binghamton
Megan Titus, Rider University, Lawrence, NJ
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.20	 Accessing Disability Studies, Relationally
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
Chair: Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
Speakers: Julie Jung, Illinois State University, Normal, "Interdependency
as an Ethic for Intellectual Work"
Hilary Selznick, Illinois State University, Normal, "Re-Imagining Access
in Bureaucratic Technical Communication and Institutional Practices"

112

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 112

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware, Newark, "Opening up
Disability Studies: Notes on Inclusion and Credibility"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.21	 Rewriting Rhetorical Scripts: Literate and Gendered
Identities
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Lindee Owens, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Vandana Gavaskar, Elizabeth City State University, NC, "Open
Gendered and Racial Identities in Web 2.0: Rhetoric in the Age of Open
Source Intelligence, Data Mining, and Crowd Sourcing"
Jen Almjeld, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Rhetorics of
Girlhood and Why Writing Teachers Should Care"
Cynthia Ryan, University of Alabama at Birmingham, "Crafting Identities:
Re-Imagining Labor through the Self-Employed Women’s Association
in Gujarat, India"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.22	 The Art of Indigenous Rhetorics: Survivance, Ecology,
and Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Indra Mukhopadhyay, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: Leigh Ann Dunning, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "The
Great Tree of Peace: Haudenosaunee Rhetoric Past, Present, and Future"
Wesley Dunning, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Nizipuhwahsin: Indigenous Rhetoric from North Central Montana"
Rachel Griffo, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Resisting the中 (Center): Indigenous Rhetoric in Southwest China"
Theory

B.23	 Politics of Language and Culture in Spanish Communities
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Cong Zhang, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Denise Valdes, Syracuse University, NY, "Spanglish, Composition Studies, and the Addition of Latino/a Voices"
Kim Hensley Owens, Wakefield, RI, "Unboxing Education: Addressing the
Issue of Tucson’s Banned Mexican American Studies Program from a
Comp-Rhet Perspective"
Janine Butler, East Carolina University, Greenville, "Encouraging Writers’
Metalinguistic Awareness of Their Three Languages: Using American
Sign Language and Spanish to Write in English"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	113

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 113

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Professional and Technical Writing

B.24	 Blue-Collar CraftsMan: Revealing the Value Gained
through Unofficial Factory Floor Writing
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: Connie Mick
Speakers: Elena Garcia, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Writing as Expression of Craft Knowledge"
Guadalupe Garcia, Post Cereals, Battle Creek, MI, "Leaving Something
Behind"
Professional and Technical Writing

B.25	 The Ethics of Visuals: From Illustrations to Information
Design
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor
Chair: Derek Ross, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Laura Palmer, Southern Polytechnic State University, Marietta,
GA
Kathryn Northcut, Missouri University of Science and Technology, Rolla
Karen Schriver, KSA Communication Design & Research, Oakmont, PA
Derek Ross, Auburn University, AL
Research

B.26	 Queering the Gendered and Marginal Discourses of
Composition Studies: Perspectives on Vulnerability,
Craft, and "Habits of Mind"
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
Chair: Tanya Robertson, The University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Dalel Serda, College of the Mainland, Texas City, TX, "Annotating Marginal Discourse: Fostering Metacognitive ‘Habits of Mind’ in
Community College Hispanic Females"
Zarah Moeggenberg, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, "Queering the Writing Prompt: Effects on Craft in Asking Students to Claim
Queer/‘Other’"
Steve Smith, University of Louisville, KY, "Listening in on Gendered Discourse: Vulnerability as a Desirable Trait in Peer Review"
Sonya Green, Lipscomb University, Nashville, TN, "Listening in on Gendered Discourse: Vulnerability as a Desirable Trait in Peer Review"

114

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 114

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.27	 The Composition of Art, Comedy, and Dance
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: Patrick W. Berry, Syracuse University, New York, NY
Speakers: Kristyne Bradford, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "The
Making of Knowledge in Art: Case Studies of Fiber Artists"
Robert Beshere, South University, Greensboro, NC, "’Yes, And’ Pedagogy:
The Intersection of First-Year Composition and Improv Comedy"
Molly Daniel, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "The Body and New
Media: The Dancing Body as Media"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.28	 Affordances and Constraints of Open Access: Learning
Composition in Online Environments
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
Chair: Alaina Feltenberger Beaver, University of Colorado, Boulder
Speakers: Dalyn Luedtke, Norwich University, Northfield, VT, "Rethinking the (Student-Centered) Classroom: Reasons to Open Up Online
Spaces in Physical Environments"
Amy Bertken, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Scientific Composition
and Digital Tools: Towards an Open Access Future"
Allison Carr Waechter, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Business Writers
and the Branding of Online Learning"
Alaina Feltenberger Beaver, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Innovative
Collaborative Support: New Research on an Online Multiliteracy Center"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.29	 Counter-Standardization: Opening the English Language,
Queering Writing, and New Teacher Preparation
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Dianna Shank, Southwestern Illinois College, Belleville
Speakers: Julie Amberg, York College of Pennsylvania, "Going beyond the
Standard: Preparing Students for the Multi-English Workplace"
Deborah Vause, York College of Pennsylvania, "Going beyond the Standard: Preparing Students for the Multi-English Workplace"
Gareth Hadyk-DeLodder, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Towards a
Rhetoric of Collapse: Marking a Place for Queer Theory in Florida Standardized Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	115

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 115

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.30	 Critical Disability Pedagogies: Hacking the Curriculum,
Rewriting Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Margaret Price, Spelman College, Decatur, GA
Speakers: Allison Hitt, Syracuse University, NY, "Dis/Ability as Inquiry:
Hacking the Fixed Curriculum"
Anna Hensley, Syracuse University, NY, "Critical Disability Pedagogy and
Writing Assessment"
Justin McCoy, University of West Florida, Pensacola, "Remixing Institutional Spaces, Re-Enabling Student Writers"
Bre Garrett, University of West Florida, Pensacola, "Remixing Institutional
Spaces, Re-Enabling Student Writers"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.31	 From Hula to Hei: Indigenizing English Instruction at
Hawai‘i Community College
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Robyn Gartner, Hawai’i Community College, Hilo
Speakers: Pele Kaio, Hawai’i Community College, Hilo
Rebecca Jacobs, Hawai’i Community College, Hilo
Robyn Gartner, Hawai’i Community College, Hilo
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.32	 Hybrid Pedagogies: HYC Formats, Asynchronous Peer
Review, and Open Collaboration
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: Brian Stone, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Speakers: Robin Fowler, University Of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Moving
Student Conversations Online: The Benefits of Online Chat for Student
Team Design Negotiations"
Stephanie Sheffield, University Of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Moving Student
Conversations Online: The Benefits of Online Chat for Student Team
Design Negotiations"
Aly Schweigert, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Online Peer Review in
the FYC Course: Case Studies Assessing Student Perceptions of Asynchronous Peer Review"
Daniel Singer, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Hybrid Courses and the
Future of First-Year Composition in the American University: Mistakes
of a First-Year HYC Instructor"

116

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 116

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.33	 "Metamorphosis Hurts": Racial Identity Narratives, White
Consumption of Hip Hop, and Agency in Student Writing
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Gabriel Cutrufello, Swarthmore College, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Sophie Bell, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, "Open Season:
Racial Identity Narratives in a Composition Classroom"
Bronwyn T. Williams, University of Louisville, KY, "Metamorphosis Hurts:
The Tensions of Pedagogy, Emotion, and Student Agency"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.34	 Multimodal and Multigenre Writing in Classrooms: Critical
Engagements
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Chair: Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Corinth
Speakers: Ryan Trauman, University of Louisville, KY, "Digital Storytelling: Narrative Techniques for Non-Narrative Arguments in the FirstYear Writing Classroom"
Nicola Wilson Clasby, Iowa State University, Cedar Falls, "’Totally (Un)
Wired’: Media Abstinence and Creative Resistance in the Writing Classroom"
Lisa Lebduska, Wheaton College, Norton, MA, "Using Dynamic Criteria
Mapping to Open Discussions about a First-Year Writing Requirement
in a Digital World"
Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA, "Remix,
Rewrite, Re-Cite: Responsible Practices for Teaching Multimodal and
Multi-Genre Writing"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

B.35	 Teaching Digital Communications in Adult-oriented
College Classrooms: Digital Immigrant Students and
Teachers Learning Together
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Second Floor
Chair: Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota, Saint
Paul
Speakers: Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, Brooklyn, "Digital
Writing, Learning, and Communicating: Graduate Student Blogging and
Learning in ‘Basic Writing Theory and Pedagogy’"
Christine Photinos, National University, San Diego, Carlsbad, CA, "‘Social’ Tools in Online Writing Courses: Challenges and Opportunities for
Adult Learners"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	117

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 117

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Kimme Nuckles, IWU, Warner University, SNHU, UMUC, MI, "Digital
Immigrant Faculty Navigating Online Instruction: Teachers as Learners"
Cynthia (Cindy) Gomez, Hodges University, Ft. Myers, FL, "Adult Learners and Online Writing Courses: Reducing Anxiety and Encouraging
Success"
Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, "Not
Just Another Bubble Comment: Academic Legitimacy, Adult Learners,
and the Power of GoogleDocs for Peer Review in Online Classes"
Academic Writing

B.36	 New Media, Pop Culture, and Testifying in Academic
Discourse
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Speakers: Rebecca Borah, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Inquiring Monsters: Using Fan Culture to Throw Open the Gates of Academic Discourse"
Sarah Etlinger, Rock Valley College, Milwaukee, WI, "Open Situations:
Reassessing the Rhetorical Situation for the New Media Classroom"
Michelle Holley, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Putting on James Brown’s
Cape in the World of Academic Gowns: Testifying in the Classroom and
on the Page to Enter the Discourse of the Academy"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

B.38	 Precarious Pedagogies: Embodied Performance in the
Writing Classroom
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor
Chair: David Riche, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
Speakers: Vicki Davis, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, "Using
Performative Pedagogies to Break the Cycle of Negative Writing Attitudes, Part 1"
David Riche, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, "Using Performative Pedagogies to Break the Cycle of Negative Writing Attitudes, Part 2"
Anna West, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, "Give Writing a Body
that Moves: Using Boalian Methods in the Writing Classroom, Part 1"
Penelope Dane, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, "Give Writing
a Body that Moves: Using Boalian Methods in the Writing Classroom,
Part 2"
Cara Jones, Towson University, MD, "Decomposing the Able-Bodied
Classroom: Disability and Kinesthetic Knowledge Production in the
Writing Classroom"

118

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 118

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C Sessions: 1:45–3:00 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Ken Crews
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Speaker: Ken Crews
Kenneth Crews joined Columbia University in January 2008 as founding director of the Copyright Advisory
Office (CAO). For more than twenty years, Dr. Crews
has focused much of his research, policymaking, and
teaching on copyright issues. He has published widely
on the topic, and he is a frequent speaker at universities
and meetings throughout the world. In 2008 he completed a study for the World Intellectual Property Organization (an agency of the United Nations), analyzing
copyright statutes applicable to libraries in the laws of
more than 150 countries.

Ken Crews

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	119

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 119

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.


a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 120

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Academic Writing

C.01	 Unification, Epistemic Moves, and Human Subjects
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Chair: Cheryl H. Duffy, Fort Hays State University, Hays, KS
Speakers: Christopher Garcia, University of Guam, "Beyond Academia
in FYC Research Learning: Open Access and the Protection of Human
(Subjects)"
John Mauk, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Curricular Dark Matter: A
Case for Teaching Epistemic Moves"
Carolyn Towles, Liberty University, Lynchburg, VA, "Shifting from a Small
Intimate Writing Classroom to a Large Lecture Model: Transforming the
Multiple Approach Method to a Unified Academic Writing Method"
Community, Civic & Public

C.02	 Between Oppositional Social Movement and Dominant
Practice: The Ambivalent Location of Open Source
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
Chair: Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Stephen Schneider, University of Louisville, KY
Jeff Pruchnic, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.03	 Open Access Composing Processes
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Sandra Dent, Stark State College, North Canton, OH
Speakers: Esther Solis Al-Tabaa, University of Texas at El Paso, "Multiple
Modes of Learning: Online Open Source Content"
Joshua Welsh, Central Washington University, Ellensburg, "The Client
in the Crowd: Partnering with Open Source Software Communities in
Technical Writing Classes"
Josephine Walwema, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Digital Notebooks: Composing with Open Access"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	121

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 121

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

History

C.04	 Accessing Asian American Rhetoric: Identity through
Ethnicity, Culture, and Construction
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Daphne Desser, University of Hawai’i, Honolulu
Speakers: Edward Lee, University of Hawai’i at Manoa, "Race, Identity,
and Discourse in Asian American Rhetoric"
Ashley Fukutomi, University of Hawai’i at Mano, "Asian vs. Not Asian:
Problematizing Current Definitions of Asian American Rhetoric"
Kira Yamashita, University of Hawai’i at Manoa, "Toward a Hawai‘i-Specific Definition of Asian American Rhetoric: Identity Construction in the
Rhetorical Practices of Japanese Americans in Hawai‘i"
History

C.05	 In the Nature of Remembering, Recollecting the Past to
Invent the Future
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Chair: Thomas P. Miller, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Linda Ferreira-Buckley, University of Texas at Austin
Thomas P. Miller, University of Arizona, Tucson
Lester Faigley, University of Texas, Austin
History

C.06	 Opening Access: Women Working across Domestic and
Professional Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina Greensboro
Speakers: David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "More Than a
Feeling: Women in the Elocution and Expression Movement"
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park, "Domestic Experiments: Accessing the Science Lab through Spatial Rhetorics"
Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina, Greensboro, "Rhetorical
Training in Business and Professional Women’s Clubs"
Sarah Hallenbeck, University of North Carolina, Wilmington, "Patenting
Feminine Ingenuity in Late Nineteenth-Century America"
Information Technologies

C.07	 Empowering Students to Grapple with Identity Formation
and Surveillance in Digital Environments
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: Estee Beck, Bowling Green State University, OH

122

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 122

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Speakers: Colleen Reilly, University of North Carolina, Wilmington, "Accepting the Terms? Developing A Critical Awareness of Digital Surveillance"
Estee Beck, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Unveiling Our Invisible
Digital Identities: An Analysis of Internet Surveillance"
Gerald Jackson, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Composing Digital Identity: Mediation, Archive, and the Protocol of Control"
Information Technologies

C.08	 MOOCing Back to School: A Roundtable of Professors as
Students in Massive Online Open Courses
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair: Steven Krause, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Speakers: Drew Loewe, St. Edwards University, Austin, TX, "Another
MOOC in the Wall, Part II: Hey, Teachers, (Don’t) Leave Them Kids
Alone"
Elizabeth Losh, University of California, San Diego, "Telepresence, Ubiquity, and Mess"
Judy Arzt, University of Saint Joseph, Bloomfield, CT, "MOOCs: A Global
Collaborative Community"
Jane Lasarenko, Slippery Rock University, New Castle, PA, "Put ‘em Together and What Have You Got?	Bibbity-Bobbity-?"
Steven Krause, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Alone in a Crowd"
Alexander Reid, University at Buffalo, NY
Information Technologies

C.10	 Opening Up: How Information Technologies Alter
Composition Research Methodologies
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Speakers: Timothy Laquintano, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, "What
Happens When We Abandon Participant Anonymity in Internet Writing
Research?"
Quinn Warnick, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Writing in Public about Public
Writing: When Research Participants Become Respondents"
Benjamin Miller, City University of New York Graduate Center, Bronx,
"Privacy and Provided Datasets: Making Fair Use of the Dissertations
and Thesis Archive"
Amanda Licastro, The Graduate Center, City University of New York, NY,
"Crowdsourced Compositions: Exploring the Power of Folksonomic
Narratives and Social Filtering"
Brian McNely, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Practical Activity, Visual Methods, and Representational Complexity"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	123

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 123

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

C.11	 Tools to Collect With: Zotero, Pinterest, and Evernote
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Marlene Hendricks, North Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro
Speakers: Matthew Kelly, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Accessing Ideology: Navigating Interface Design and University Policy in Reference
Management Software"
Janah Adams, Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC, "Digital
Daybooking with Evernote"
Denise Landrum-Geyer, Southwestern Oklahoma State University, Weatherford, "Performing on Pinterest: A Platform for Open and Public Invention Practices"
Institutional and Professional

C.12	 Con Job: Stories of Adjunct and Contingent Labor
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII, Third Floor
Chair: Megan Fulwiler, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY
Speakers: Megan Fulwiler, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY
Jennifer Marlow, The College of Saint Rose, Albany, NY
Respondents: William Thelin, University of Akron, OH
Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Gail Hawisher, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Institutional and Professional

C.13	 Toward Authentic Student Learning Assessment in
General Education: Encouraging Metacognition through
Faculty Development, Quantitative Reasoning, and
E-Portfolios
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Lexington, VA
Speakers: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania, PA, "Recovering the ‘Teaching’ in Teaching and Learning: Enhancing Faculty
Metacognition through General Education Assessment and Reform"
Patrick Bahls, University of North Carolina, Asheville, "Toward Authentic Assessment of Authentic Learning: Measuring Quantitative Literacy
through Reflective Writing"
Paul Hanstedt, Roanoke College, Lexington, VA, "E-Portfolios, Metacognitive Writing, and the ‘Whole Student’"

124

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 124

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.14	 Across Cultures, Across Disciplines: Literacy and Identity
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Speakers: Christina Fisanick, California University of Pennsylvania, "Accessing Appalachia: Exploring Cross-Disciplinary Approaches to Composition and Rhetoric Studies"
Amanda Funk, Kutztown University of Pennsylvania, "Transparent Native
America: A Reflection on Vulnerability, Resiliency, and Authenticity in
Rhetorical Indian Territory"
William DeGenaro, The University of Michigan, Dearborn, "Freire in the
Arab World"
Elizabeth B. Lang, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Opening Community Access to College Composition Topics and Theories: An Urban
Hispanic-Serving Institution’s Persistence Project"
Institutional and Professional

C.15	 Whose Responsibility Is It, Anyway? Preparing Future
Faculty in Rhetoric and Composition
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Chair: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Joyce Neff, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Preparing
Future Faculty from a Distance: Rethinking Traditional Delivery of Doctoral Education"
Amy Kimme Hea, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Knowledge-Production
in Rhetoric and Composition: An Inquiry into Rhetoric and Composition’s Role in Preparing Graduate Students to Intervene in the Discourses and Practices of Education"
Kristine Blair, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Sharing the Responsibility: Multimodal Composing in the Doctoral Curriculum"
Respondent: Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College, Alexandra
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.16	 Ludic(rous?) Pedagogy: The Promises and Pitfalls of
Gamifying the Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Danielle Roach, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Megan McKittrick, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Matt Beale, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Danielle Roach, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Kevin Moberly, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Kris Purzycki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	125

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 125

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Language

C.17	 Still "Talkin’ that Talk": Access Granted to Open
Conversations about Home Language, Pedagogy,
and Technology
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Michelle Robinson, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Speakers: Syreeta Lyons-Burns, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa,
"Open Access to Language: Affirming Linguistic Spaces through Multimodal Composition"
Khirsten Echols, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "Real Talk:
Opening the Composition Classroom to Language Diversity and Afrocentric Teaching Practices"
Kedra James, North Carolina Wesleyan College, Rocky Mount, "Don’t
Delete Yo’ Tweets: The Future of African American English in Digital
Environments"
Professional and Technical Writing

C.18	 New Points of Access: Integrating Theoretical
Frameworks for Teaching Technical Communication
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Michelle Eble, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Speakers: Flourice W. Richardson, Illinois State University, Normal, "Black
Feminist Pedagogical Approaches: Re-Imagining Technical Communication as a Tool for Social Justice"
Gracemarie Mike, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "A GroundedTheory Approach to Diversity in Technical Communication"
Erin A. Frost, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, "Teaching from an
Apparent Feminist Body"
Respondent: Matthew Cox, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Research

C.19	 Reframing Open Access as a Ground for Embedded
Information Literacy Instruction
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor
Co-Chairs: Nancy DeJoy, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Jill Morningstar, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Brian Holcomb, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Rachel Minkin, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Sara Miller, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Luanna Prevost, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Benjamin Oberdick, Michigan State University, East Lansing

126

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 126

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Research

C.20	 Writing Ideologies and New Media: Writing Relationships
in Fantasy Sports Leagues, NaNoWriMo, I F*cking LOVE
Science, and Other Mediated Writing Communities
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Sally Chandler, Kean University, Union, NJ
Speakers: Luis Diaz III, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Gratuitous Pictures
of Yourself: Validation through Likes, Comments, and Reblogs"
Willmaria Miranda, Kean University, Union, NJ, "The Author Is Dead,
Long Live the Authors: Writer-Ship, Writing Groups, and Composing
Electronic Literature"
Joe Palinsky, Kean University, Union, NJ
Nicole Dreste, Kean University, Union, NJ, "NaNoWriMo: Product-Centered Writing for a Deadline"
Robyn Orr, Kean University, Union, NJ, "Trash Talking, Alter Egos and
Disposable Writing in the Quasi-Community of Fantasy Sports"
Sally Chandler, Kean University, Union, NJ
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.21	 Access Denied: Opening the Online Community by
Rethinking and Revising Our Discussions with Students
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: Jessie Borgman, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Speakers: Jessie Borgman, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo,
"Luring Student Interaction and Fostering a Sense of Community in the
Online Writing Classroom"
Casey McArdle, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Mobile Learning Just Keeps on Running: Renegotiating Online Writing Spaces for
Students Away from Big Brother"
Alicia Rasley, University of Maryland University College/Ivy Tech, Indianapolis, IN, "Feedback Format and Tone for Online Writing Centers"
Dani Weber, University of Pittsburgh Bradford, "Hello, Mr. Chips: Maximizing Student Engagement and Response to Online Feedback"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	127

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 127

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.22	 College Readiness, Web Writing, and First-Year
Composition: Opening Access in the Transition
from High School to College Writing
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Patrick Thomas, University of Dayton, OH
Speakers: Christine Olding, University of Dayton, OH, "Digital Writing
about Music: A Thematic Bridge from High School to College Writing"
Bryan Bardine, University of Dayton, OH, "Writing about Writing on the
Web: A Headbanger’s Approach to Bridging High School and College
Composition"
Molly Bardine, Chaminade Julienne Catholic High School, Dayton, OH,
"Web Writing and Social Justice: Utilizing Forms of Argument and Research in Web Writing to Develop College Readiness"
Research

C.23	 The Ties That Bind: Embroidered Protest, Substance
Abuse, and Unending Burkean Conversations about
Alcohol
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Chair: Rhea Estelle Lathan, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Maureen Daly Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Yearning for Greater Transparency and Freedom from Fear: Embroidered Protests on Deaths and Disappearances from the ‘War on Drugs’ in Mexico"
Mark Williams, California State University, Long Beach, "Open to Change:
Burke’s Spells for Unending Conversations about Alcohol"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.24	 Ain’t No Future in Frontin: Black Language, Survivance,
Polyculturalism, and White Racial Narratives TODAY!
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Marion Wolfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Jessica Barros, Ithaca College, NY, "’Don’t Front You Know I
Got Cha Opin’: Gettin Opin with Students in Predominately White Institutions on Critical of Black Investigations on Languages in the Mainstream while Teaching from African-Centered Perspective on Black
Language and White Privilege"
Meagan Rodgers, University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma, Oklahoma
City, "The Pedagogical Role of White Racial Narrative"
Elena Shvidko, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Celebrating Cultural Diversity through Writing Projects"
Reanae McNeal, Texas Woman’s University, Denton, "Rhetorics of Survivance: African Native American Art as an Act of	 Resistance"
128

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 128

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.25	 Literate Arts: Autoethnography and Composition
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Suresh Canagarajah, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park
Speakers: Michael MacDonald, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Disclosing Hope: Autoethnography and Refugee Narratives in the Writing
Classroom"
Casey O’Brien, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Passionate Detachments: Ethics of Personal Narratives in a Feminist Research Writing
Classroom"
Shereen Inayatulla, York College, City University of New York, NY, "Crafting Automythnography"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.27	 Open Invitations: Integrating Improvisational Action into
Writing Pedagogies
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Lauren Esposito, State University of New York, Stony Brook
Speakers: Daniel J. Weinstein, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "‘Getting It’ Together: L’Atelier d’ecriture as Fountainhead of Academic
Prose"
David Stacey, Humboldt State University, Arcata, CA, "The Round Black
Table and the Writing Classroom as Jazz Combo Jam Session"
Lauren Esposito, State University of New York, Stony Brook, "Active Invention through Improvisational Acting"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.28	 Writing-about-Writing as a Pedagogy of Transparency
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor
Chair: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Speakers: Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "Sharing
in Digital Teaching: Writing-about-Writing, Transparency, and Teaching
Writing Online"
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Radical Transparency:
Opening Rhetorical Systems through Truth-Telling in WAW Courses"
I. Moriah McCracken, St. Edward’s University, Austin, TX, "Programmatic
Transparency in a Local, Open, Online Course (LOOC)"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	129

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 129

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.29	 Opening the Social Rhetoric of Gender: Challenging
Masculinized Logos, Neutralized Teaching, and Typical
Writing Bodies
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom X, Third Floor
Chair: Daniel Cryer, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Jessica Kaiser, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "A Re(en)
vis(ion)ed Future: Creating a Conscientious Vulnerability"
Catherine DeLazzero, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York,
NY, "Atypical Embodiment as a Lens for Teaching and Assessing Writing"
Ellen Gianakis, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY,
"Atypical Embodiment as a Lens for Teaching and Assessing Writing"
Michael Kovacs, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY,
"Atypical Embodiment as a Lens for Teaching and Assessing Writing"
Tiffany Touma, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY,
"Atypical Embodiment as a Lens for Teaching and Assessing Writing"
Molly Bradley, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY,
"Atypical Embodiment as a Lens for Teaching and Assessing Writing"
Melanie Lee, University of Southern Indiana, Evansville, "Re(Image)ining
Rhetoric in Composition"
Gary Vaughn, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Reading Brokeback Mountain
and Jarhead in Composition Classes: Constructing Open Spaces out of
Contested Spaces"
Theory

C.30	 Agency in Rhetorical and Metaphorical Discourses of
Contention
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: Deidre Garriott, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Speakers: Annie Kelvie, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Sacred Genres Performing Gender: Biblical Paratexts and Literacy Practices"
Rachel Wolford, University of Minnesota, Duluth, "Agency in the Rhetorical Situation: What We Can Learn from the Dan Savage/Brian Brown
Dinner Table Debate on Gay Marriage"
Gregory Wilson, Iowa State University, Ames, "Agency in the Rhetorical
Situation: What We Can Learn from the Dan Savage/Brian Brown Dinner Table Debate on Gay Marriage"
Jason Markins, Syracuse University, NY, "Metaphors of Competition,
Domination, and Rape: When Sports Rhetoric Underlies Power Relationships in the Composition Classroom"
Lana Oweidat, Ohio University, Athens, "Subverting the Western Gaze: An
Appeal for an Un/Veiled Rhetoric"

130

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 130

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

C.31	 Opening the Writing Classroom to Intellectual Risk
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Alexis Teagarden, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Carolyn Commer, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA,
"Open to Audacity: the Place of Intellectual Risk in Prof/Tech Writing"
Ana Cooke, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "Open to ‘Nonsense’: Conventions and Risk-Taking in First-Year Writing"
Justin Mando, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "An Open Inquiry: Intellectual Risk Goes Abroad"
Alexis Teagarden, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "An Open
Question: How Do We Define Intellectual Risk in the Writing Classroom"
Theory

C.32	 Complexities of Poetic Production and Rhetorical
Velocity in the Age of Author Integrity
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: Robert Gilmor, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: Amy England, Lander University, Greenwood, SC, "When
Worlds Collide: Established and Emerging Models of Secondary Source
Availability and Citation"
Julie Platt, University of Arkansas at Monticello, "Poets Composing Spaces: Poetic Production in a Digital Age"
Gina Giardina, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Redefining Ownership: Signifying(g) in Nella Larsen’s Quicksand"
Theory

C.33	 Disability, Access, and Visibility
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
Chair: Emily Cooney, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Robert Danberg, Binghamton University, NY, "In Space There Is
No Up or Down, Only In or Out: On Writing with a Learning Disability"
Nancy Reichert, Southern Polytechnic State University, Marietta, GA, "The
Invisible Academician: Opening Access to the Disabled Faculty Member"
Shannon Walters, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, "Accessing Mindfulness: Disability, Difference and the Writing Process"
John Allen, Milwaukee Area Technical College, WI, "Disinterested in Disability?: Openness, Access, and Intellectual Disability"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	131

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 131

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Theory

C.34	 Rupture Networks and the Visual Rhetoric of Dissent:
Opening Access
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
Chair: Lynn Lewis, Oklahoma State University, Norman
Speakers: Lynn Lewis, Oklahoma State University, Norman, "The Casual
Cop and the Pepper Spray: Rupture Networks and Internet Memes as
Means to Resistance"
Rachel Jackson, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Raising a Red Flag:
Rupture Networks, Visual Resistance, and Local History"
Bryan I. Jones, Oklahoma State University, Stillwater, "Masking Mischief:
Rupture Networks, Alternative Rhetoric, and the V Mask"
Community, Civic & Public

C.35	 Slam Poetry, Street Performance, and Food Justices:
The Rhetorics of Civic Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
Chair: Diana Shaffer, Independent Scholar, Dallas, TX
Speakers: Daphne Desser, University of Hawaii, Honolulu, "Youth Speaks:
Slam Poetry as Civic Engagement"
Anne Rosenthal, Oglethorpe University, Atlanta, GA, "Cultivating Our
Field for a Green Future: The Civic Rhetoric(s) of Food Justice Movements"
Academic Writing

C.36	 Collaborative Academic Writing: Wikis, Graduate Peer
Tutoring, and the Graduate Writing Center
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Mary Marley, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro
Speakers: Sarah Summers, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, "Accessing Expertise: Experience and Insecurity in the Graduate
Writing Center"
Katrina Bell, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Collaborative Writing In and Out of the Writing Center: Graduate Student Peer Tutoring"
Jonathan Deane, Rutgers-Camden, Richard Stockton College, Lawrenceville, NJ, "It Worked! WikiDan61 Accepted My Changes!: Wikipedia in
the Semester-Long Project"

132

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 132

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

C.37	 Access to Textural Practice: Hybrid Genres, Reciprocity,
and Interdisciplinarity
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Speakers: Shreelina Ghosh, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Mediated Pedagogies of Opening-Concept Classrooms: An Interdisciplinary Approach to Online Composition Pedagogy"
Chad Wickman, Auburn University, AL, "Making Composition Visible:
Disciplinary Reciprocity and the Promise of Open Access"
Andrew Karr, University of Wisconsin-Marathon County, "Is FYW Necessary as a Source Code in WAC Anymore? A Comparison of English and
Biology "
Carla Sarr, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Opening Argument to Student
Experience: Hybrid Genres in First-Year Composition"
Community, Civic & Public

C.38	 Beyond Making a Difference: Responsible Assessment of
Community Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
Chair: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Ben Kuebrich, Syracuse University, NY, "Tracking Texts That
Do Not Sit: Assessing Circulation in Community Publishing"
Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, Miami, "Reinventing
Community Literacy in Light of the "Academic Responsibility Gap""
Jessica Pauszek, Syracuse University, NY, "Negotiating Community-Minded Writing Assessment"
Respondent: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, NY
Research

C.39 	 Change!: Increasing the Popularity of Writing Programs
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Chair: Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "The
Roles of Rhetoric in Upper-Division Writing Programs"
Matthew Heard, University of North Texas, Denton, " Design Reconsidered: What Curriculum Designers Can Learn From Visual Design"
Chalet Seidel, Westfield State University, MA, "Disciplinary Indiscretions:
Open Relationships in Multi-Focus Writing Programs"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	133

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 133

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

D Sessions: 3:15–4:30 p.m.
Featured Session

Dana Williams and Joanne Gabbin
Speaking to Mari Evan’s Work and Legacy
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Chair: Maryemma Graham, Kansas University, Lawrence
Dana A. Williams is Professor of African American
Literature and Chair of the Department of English at
Howard University. She earned her B.A. in English
from Grambling State University in Grambling, LA
in 1993, her M.A. in 1995 from Howard University,
and her Ph.D. in African American Literature from
Howard University in 1998. Before returning to Howard University as a faculty member in 2003, Williams
completed a Ford Foundation postdoctoral fellowship
Dana A. Williams
at Northwestern University (Evanston, IL) in the deHoward University
partments of English and Afro-American Studies and
taught at Louisiana State University (Baton Rouge,
LA) in the Department of English for four years. During the 2008-09 academic year, she was a visiting
faculty fellow at Duke University at the John Hope
Franklin Humanities Institute. She assumed the chairmanship of the Department of English in 2009.
She is the author of Contemporary African American Female Playwrights: An Annotated Bibliography
(Greenwood 1999), co-edited of August Wilson and
Black Aesthetics (Palgrave-MacMillan, 2004) with
Joanne V. Gabbin
Sandra G. Shannon; editor African American Humor,
James Madison
Irony, and Satire: Ishmael Reed, Satirically Speaking
University
(Cambridge Scholars, 2007); Conversations with Leon
Forrest (UP of Mississippi, 2007); and Contemporary African American Fiction: New Critical Essays (Ohio State UP, 2009) and author of In the Light
of Likeness—Transformed: The Literary Art of Leon Forrest (Ohio State UP,
2005). She has published articles in CLA Journal, African American Review,
Bulletin of Bibliography, Langston Hughes Review, Zora Neale Hurston Forum, Studies in American Fiction, International Journal of the Humanities, Profession, ADE Bulletin, and PMLA.

134

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 134

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Williams is president of the executive committee of the Associated Departments of English, the largest national organization of English departments in
American colleges and universities; program chair and president-elect of the
College Language Association, the oldest and largest professional organization
for African American and African Diaspora faculty of English and World Languages; and president-elect of the executive committee for the Modern Language
Association’s Black American Literature and Culture Division.
Joanne V. Gabbin is the Executive Director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center and Professor of English at James Madison University. She is author of Sterling A. Brown: Building the Black Aesthetic Tradition, which was published in
a new edition by the University Press of Virginia in 1994, and a children’s book,
I Bet She Called Me Sugar Plum (2004). She is also the editor of The Furious
Flowering of African American Poetry (1999), Furious Flower: African American Poetry from the Black Arts Movement to the Present (2004), Mourning Katrina: A Poetic Response to Tragedy (2009) and Shaping Memories: Reflections
of African American Women Writers (2009).
As director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center, Gabbin has organized two
international conferences for the critical exploration of African American Poetry.
The first, Furious Flower: A Revolution in African American Poetry held in 1994
with Gwendolyn Brooks, gathered 35 acclaimed poets to James Madison University in the first conference of its kind. The second, Furious Flower: Regenerating
the Black Poetic Tradition brought together more than 50 nationally and internationally renowned poets in 2004.
A dedicated teacher and scholar, she has received numerous awards for excellence in teaching, scholarship and leadership. Among them are the College Language Association Creative Scholarship Award for her book Sterling A. Brown
(1986), the James Madison University Faculty Women’s Caucus and Women’s
Resource Network Award for Scholarship (1988), the Outstanding Faculty
Award, Virginia State Council of Higher Education (1993), the Provost Award
for Excellence (2004), the JMU Distinguished Faculty Award (2005), induction
in the Literary Hall of Fame at Chicago State University in 2005, and the 2007
Woman of Distinction Award.
Gabbin is also the founder and organizer of the Wintergreen Women Writers’
Collective, which meets every year in Wintergreen, Virginia to promote scholarship in African American literature. She serves on the board of the Virginia
Foundation for the Humanities, and she is a member or former board member of
twenty-five professional and service organizations.
She received a B.A. in English from Morgan State College in 1967, a M.A. in
English from the University of Chicago in 1970, and the Ph.D. in English Language and Literature from the University of Chicago in 1980.

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	135

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 135

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 136

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Academic Writing

D.01	 The LILAC Project: Opening and Furthering Faculty and
Student Dialogues about Information Literacy
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Opening Research Dialogues: LILAC and the Multi-Institutional
Study"
Leigh Ann Williams, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Opening
Classroom Dialogues: LILAC Videos and the Teaching of Research"
Janice Walker, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Opening Findings: Updated LILAC Findings and Open Access Resources"
Community, Civic & Public

D.02	 Building a Community Writing Center: An Experiment in
Collaboration, Community, and Multiliteracy to Create
Access and Legibility for Both Writers and Centers
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: Sara Littlejohn, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Shana Scudder, University of North Carolina at Greensboro,
"Collaborating as Insiders in the Community Writing Center: Working
Together to Work with the Community"
Kathleen Leuschen, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Collaborating as Insiders in the Community Writing Center: Working Together
to Work with the Community"
Jennifer Whitaker, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Writing
Center Community Outreach and Assessment: A Surprising Collaboration"
Sara Littlejohn, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Writing Center Community Outreach and Assessment: A Surprising Collaboration"
Community, Civic & Public

D.03	 Opening Latin@ Rhetorics: Examining Exclusionary
Underpinnings of Openness in U.S. Political and
Academic Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Chair: Jaime Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Sonia Christine Arellano, University of Arizona, Tucson, "‘Merican Privatization and Public Responsibility: Analyzing How Neoliberal
Rhetoric Supports the Privatization of Illegalized Immigrant Detention
in Arizona"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	137

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 137

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Jose Cortez, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Theoretical Challenges to
Latin@ Rhetorics: Creative Resistance for Composition"
Ana Milena Ribero, University of Arizona, Tucson, "The American
Dream(ers): Liberal Rhetoric and the False Promise of Opportunity for
Undocumented Students"
Creative Writing

D.04	 Permission to Write: Teachers, Writing, and the Effects of
Volition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Third Floor
Chair: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee,
"The Influence of Design: Writing Coming into View"
Nancy Sommers, Harvard University, Boston, MA, "Arranging the Alphabet: A Teaching Narrative"
Doug Hesse, University of Denver, CO, "Writing in Place: 33 Explorations
of DeWitt, Normal, Denver"
History

D.05	 The Persistence of Memory: Remapping the Future of
Composition Studies by Charting Writing Histories at
One Rural Texas University
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Speakers: Geoffrey Clegg, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Quantum
Echoes: How the Archives, Interdisciplinary Composition, and a Forward-Thinking Professor Reshaped Graduate Level Writing"
Bill Lancaster, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Agency in Alternatives: The Student Voice in Underground Newspapers at East Texas State
University, 1989−1996"
Melissa Nivens, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Domestic Literacy:
Open Reflections from the Home Management House"
Susie Warley, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "’Transcending the fin
de siècle Chaos of Comp-landia’ with Fulkerson’s Enduring Focus on
the Argument"
Respondents: Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

138

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 138

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.06	 Building an Open Professional Network through Twitter
Chats: Teaching, Learning, and Co-Mentoring on Twitter
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Co-Chairs: Lee Skallerup Bessette, Morehead State University, KY
Trent Kays, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
Speakers: Traci Gardner, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Practical How-to’s
and Extending the Practice to the Classroom"
Mary Chayko, Rutgers University, East Brunswick, NJ, "Social Media,
Twitter Chats, and Community"
Judy Arzt, University of Saint Joseph, Bloomfield, CT, "Digital Landscapes
and Cross Pollination: Collaborating across Grade Levels and Disciplines"
Rozlyn Linder, Douglas County School District, Douglasville, GA, "Collaborating across Disciplines and Grade Levels"
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, "Tapping the Living
Database, Redux: The Historical Context through IRC and MOO Chats"
Respondent: Gretchen Rumohr-Voskuil, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids,
MI
Information Technologies

D.07	 Markdown, Coding, and Technology in the Composition
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Speakers: Chen Chen, Towson University, MD, "Smart Phone Applications: A New Pedagogical Tool in Writing Courses"
Rajendra Panthee, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Empowering Periphery Writing Students through Web Interface Re/Design in a CrossCultural Digital Contact Zone"
Derek Van Ittersum, Kent State University, OH, "Processing Writers’ Workflows: Examining the Role of Computers in Composing"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	139

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 139

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.08	 Reimagining Composition: Using Chat, Tweets, and
Assistive Technology to Enhance Student Writing
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: Melinda Knight, Montclair State University, NJ
Speakers: Nikki Wittenburg, Montclair State University, NJ
Julie Candio Sekel, Montclair State University, NJ
Janet Dengel, Montclair State University, NJ
Theory

D.09	 Sounding New Media
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Paul Lynch, St. Louis University, MO
Speakers: Kati Fargo Ahern, Long Island University, C.W. Post, Oyster
Bay, NY, "Making Sonic Rhetorics Available in a Technology-Free
Classroom"
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, "OpenSource Video and Screen-Recording Technologies for Writing Instruction: Multimodal Standards for Online Course Delivery"
Amy Riordan, Salina Area Technical College, KS, "’Colorful Sounds’:
Making Aural’s Felt Meanings Apparent through Remediation"
Thomas Sura, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "New Media Task
Forces: A Method for Developing Pedagogies for Composing in Digital
Environments"
Information Technologies

D.10	 The Writing Studio Ten Years Later: How an Open-Access
Learning Environment Confronts the Corporate LMS
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Mike Palmquist, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Speakers: Andrea Beaudin, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Why the
LMS Matters: Participatory Design for the Composing Community"
Lynda Haas, University of California, Irvine, "Using the Writing Studio to
Meet WPA Student Learning Outcomes"
Jaya Dubey, University of California, Irvine, "How the Writing Studio Became a Home for a Freeway Flyer"
Will Hochman, Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven, "How
I Learned to Sustain Creative Pedagogy with Independent Technology"
Mike Palmquist, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Supporting Student Writers in the Act of Composing: The Origins and Guiding Instructional Metaphor of an Open-Access LMS"

140

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 140

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Writing Programs

D.11	 Writing Out in an Open Source World for Creative Writers,
Journals, and Writing Programs
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University, NJ
Speakers: Erin Dietel-McLaughlin, University of Notre Dame, IN, "The
Future of Fresh Writing: Developing a Multimedia Journal in a FirstYear Writing Program"
Mark Bentley, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "Writing
Out in the Open: Developing an Open-Source Creative Writing Platform"
Brandon Hardy, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "Writing Out in the Open: Developing an Open-Source Creative Writing Platform"
Keith Dorwick, The University of Louisiana at Lafayette, "Why the Journal
I Edit Is and Isn’t Open Source"
Institutional and Professional

D.12	 Further Interrogating "Citizenship" as a Key Term in
Writing Scholarship, Programs, and Policies
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Steve Lamos, University of Colorado, Boulder
Speakers: Al Harahap, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Conditional Admission: College Composition as Homeland Security Agent"
Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque,
"Multilingual Writers and the Ruling Voice: Constructions of Race, Ethnicity, and Citizenship in the DREAM Act"
Sarah Powers, University of California, Davis, "Agency and Isolation: Examining the Role of Adjuncts as Institutional Outsiders"
Brian Hendrickson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Technocrats
vs. Citizens in WAC/WID Scholarship, Design, Assessment, and Mission Alignment"
Institutional and Professional

D.13	 Opening Up the English Major: A Rhetorical Approach to
Re-Uniting the Humanities
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
Chair: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Christina McDonald, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington,
"Fieldwork in the English Major: Opening Doors for Civic Participation"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	141

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 141

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Emily Miller, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, "An Alternative Model: An English Major Centered on Rhetoric"
Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "An Introduction: Imagining an English Major"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.14	 All up in Your Face: Subverting the Traditional
Stereotyping of Eastern Rhetoric’s Indirectness
vs. Western Rhetoric’s Directness
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Chair: Yunye Yu, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Meng Yu, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Lin Dong, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Yunye Yu, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, Atlanta
George Pullman, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Baotong Gu, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.15	 Indigenous Decolonial Conversations across Disciplines
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Chair: Kimberli Lee, Northeastern State University, Tahlequah, OK
Speakers: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Making American Indian Rhetorics: Native Women Artists in Indiana"
Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Listening
to Our Relations: Mapping Michigan Indian Rhetorical History"
Kyle Mays, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Indigenous Activism, Indigenous Rhetoric: Indigenous Women’s Rhetoric as a Decolonial Practice in Postwar Detroit"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

D.16	 Raiz Up to Heal Historical Trauma: Indigenous
Approaches to Spatial Praxis and Object-Oriented
Digital Rhetorics
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Casie Cobos, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: IshKote Nene, Raiz Up, Detroit, MI
Gabriela Raquel Ríos, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Casie Cobos, Illinois State University, Normal

142

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 142

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Language

D.17 Access to Openness: Local and Global Futures and the
Translingual Approach
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY
Speakers: Linda Rubel, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, "On the
Margins: Deaf/Hard of Hearing Writers in the Translingual Approach"
Rose Marie Toscano, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, "Openness:
Hearing and Deaf/Hard of Hearing Peer Group Interactions"
Dianna Winslow, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, "From Classroom
to Program: A Teacher/WPA’s Role in Shifting Attitudes toward NonStandard Englishes"
Language

D.18	 Translingualism and Transmodalism in Practice
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
Speakers: Hem Paudel, University of Louisville, KY, "Mediations of Translingual and Transmodal Practices on Online Forums"
Tika Lamsal, University of Louisville, KY, "Negotiating Differences
through Translingual and Transmodal Literate Practices"
Scott Wible, University of Maryland, University Park, "Language Policy
and Translingual Writing in U.S. Health Care Agencies"
Jerry Lee, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Beyond English as Access to
Western Modernity: Translingual Practice in Transnational Linguistic
Landscapes"
Professional and Technical Writing

D.19	 Openness, Distributed Work, and Rhetorical Conflict
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Joanna Paull, Lakeland Community College, Kirtland, OH
Speakers: Brian Ballentine, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Opening Up Distributed Writing: Mapping the Work of Symbolic-Analytic
Workers"
Michael Charlton, Missouri Western State University, Savannah, "Writing
with the Door Closed: Propriety Information and Professional Writing
Students in the Age of Open Source"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	143

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 143

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Research

D.20	 Opening Borders: Tracing Multilingual and Multimodal
Literacy Practices across Local and Global Contexts
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III,
Northfield, VT
Speakers: Sonja Wang, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Remixing Cultures, Texts, and Languages: The Emergent Meaning-Making
Processes of Chinese Students in a Digital Text"
Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, "Code
Meshing Chinese and English: Studying Multilingual Writing in Global
Contexts"
Steven Fraiberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Reweaving
Multilingual Practices: Tracing Chinese International Students’ Construction of Comics in the Composition Classroom"
Respondent: Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III,
Northfield, VT
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.21	 (Do)n’t Go There: Conceptualizing Multimodality as an
Access Point for Controversy
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Leigh Graziano, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Leigh Graziano, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "‘Video
Killed the Radio Star’: Towards a Multimodal Model of Rhetorical Theory"
Rachael Zeleny, University of Delaware, Newark, "(Photographic) Shots
Heard Round the World: Controversial Magazine Covers, Visual Rhetoric, and FYC"
Jennifer Hewerdine, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Diverse
Students, Diverse Rhetorics: Visualizing Equality through Multimodal
Communication"
Erik Ellis, Stanford University, CA, "Dancing Reapers, Mean Vegetables,
and Existential Umbrellas: How Picture Books Can Open the Door to
(Complex) Multimodal Composition"

144

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 144

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.22	 Ecology of Place in Globalized Space: Open Access, the
Networked World, and the Future of Writing Studies
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Chair: Peter Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Amy Propen, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Engendering a Sense of Place in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Cynthia Haller, York College/City University of New York, Yonkers, "Ecology of Place: Information Habitats in Digital Environments"
Gesa E. Kirsch, Bentley University, Waltham, MA, "Ecologies of Place:
The Importance of Place and Community in a Networked World"
Peter Goggin, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Environmental Rhetoric,
Ecologies of Place, and Futures of Writing Studies"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.23	 Fail Better, Teach Better: Making Use of Failure in the
Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
Chair: Steve Himmer, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Speakers: Katie Vagnino, University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire, "Pick Yourself Up, Dust Yourself Off, and Start All Over Again"
Pamela DeGregorio, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "Failure as an Inroad
to Revision: Redefining Success in the Composition Classroom"
Melanie S. Smith, Boston University, Boston, "Quieting the Critic: Affirming What We Already Know"
Miranda Roberson, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "Researching Failure in
the Composition Classroom"
Steve Himmer, Emerson College, Boston, MA, "Exuberantly Deficient:
Getting It Wrong to Get It Right"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.24	 Gaming Composition: Comics, Fan-Fic, and Games in
and beyond the Curriculum
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Heather Bruce, University of Montana, Missoula
Speakers: Mick Howard, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "Teaching Multimodal Rhetoric with Webcomics in First-Year
Composition"
Marshall Kitchens, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Video Game Theory and Design"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	145

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 145

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.25	 Minding Access, Out of the Darkness, Into the Light:
Exclusions, Conflicts, the Mind and the Body
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor
Chair: Brenda Brueggemann, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Craig A. Meyer, Ohio University, Athens, "Conflicting Access
and Accessing Conflicts: Ending the Game by Enabling Disability Pedagogy"
Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, City University of New York,
NY, "Spacetime Remix: When Accesses Engage"
Patricia Dunn, State University of New York, Stony Brook, "‘Open Access’
and ‘Access for Disability’: Conflicts, Intersections, Transformations"
Respondent: Margaret Price, Spelman College, Decatur, GA
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.26	 (Re)Opening the Ditto Device: DIY Publishing as Crafting
Agency
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Becky Morrison, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg
Speakers: Jason Luther, Syracuse University, NY, "DIY Publishing and
Pedagogies of Experiential Circulation"
Becky Morrison, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Using Multi-Modal Composition in a First-Year Writing Classroom: A Study of ‘At-Risk’ Students’
Developing Identities"
Jana Rosinski, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Cut, Copy, and
Compose: DIY Publishing and Rhetorical Ecologies of Materiality"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.27	 The Gamification of the Composition Class: Course
Design, Rubric Design, Text Design
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Carmella Braniger, Millikin University, Decatur, IL
Speakers: Ethan Jordan, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Opening
the Rule System: Remixing the Procedural Rhetoric of Video Games"
Bobby Kuechenmeister, Lindenwood University, Saint Charles, MO, "Multimodal Writing Assessment: Student Motivation, Rubrics, and Accessibility"
Matthew Newcomb, State University of New York, New Paltz, "Assessment, Motivation, and the Gamification of the Composition Class"

146

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 146

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.28	 Teaching Community in the Two-Year College: Successful
Group Work Online and in the Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
Chair: Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical College, Brooklyn, WI
Speakers: Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical College, Brooklyn,
WI
Amy Edwards Patterson, Moraine Park Technical College, Beaver Dam, WI
Eva Payne, Chemeketa Community College, Salem, OR
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.29	 Writing the Zombie Apocalypse
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: J. Christian Tatu, Lafayette College, Easton, PA
Speakers: Aydé Enriquez-Loya, Fayetteville State University, NC, "Writing to Survive the Zombie Apocalypse: Decolonial Technical Communication Pedagogies"
Stephanie Wheeler, Texas A&M University, College Station, "Disability,
Composition, and the Walking Dead: Toward an Anti-Ableist Writing
Pedagogy"
Brendan Riley, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, "The Zombie Method:
How the Apocalypse Taught Me to Be a Better Writer"
J. Christian Tatu, Lafayette College, Easton, PA, "Writing the Zombie
Apocalypse"
Theory

D.30	 A Strategic Type of "Plagiarism": Rhetorical Velocity and
Open Composition
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
Chair: Jim Ridolfo, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Amy Anderson, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Logos that
Move: The Starbucks Mermaid and the Nike Swoosh"
Craig Crowder, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "When I Become Plural: Blurring Boundaries with Rhetorical Velocity"
Jason Kahler, Saginaw Valley State University, MI, "At the Speed of
Tweets: Twitter in First- Year Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	147

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 147

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Theory

D.31	 Between Open and Closed, Queer Possibility
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Lydia McDermott, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA
Speakers: Lydia McDermott, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA, "Lives
Ajar: When Queer Opening Leads to Trans Closing"
Hillery Glasby, Ohio University, Athens, "Wide Open: Ecological Rhetorical Queer Activism"
Sherrie Gradin, Ohio University, Athens, "Slammed Shut: Strategic Queer
Closeting"
Theory

D.32	 Jewish Rhetorics, Alternative Traditions
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair: Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Patricia Bizzell, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA,
"Talmud and/as Argument"
Janice Fernheimer, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Writing across
Traditions: Making a Space for Jewish and Cross-Cultural Rhetorics"
David Bleich, University of Rochester, NY, "Commentary, Orality, and Literacy"
Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Writing
(and) the Jewish Body"
Andrea Greenbaum, Barry University, Miami Shores, FL, "Engaging in Tikun Olam: Repairing the World through Peace Studies’ Projects"
Respondent: Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College, Chicago, IL
Theory

D.34	 Theorizing Networked Rhetoric
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Ian Barnard, Chapman University
Speakers: Ben Fink, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "The Big Limit
Situation: What ‘Neoliberalism’ Is (Actually), How It’s Shaped, How
We Do Writing (Badly), and What We Can (and Must!) Do about It"
Robert (Robin) Brown, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "The Big
Limit Situation: What ‘Neoliberalism’ Is (Actually), How It’s Shaped,
How We Do Writing (Badly), and What We Can (and Must!) Do about
It"
Jeffrey Maxson, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, "Networking Composition Theory and Practice, from Berlin to Potlatch"
Daniel Keller, The Ohio State University at Newark, "Theorizing Reading
in a Culture of Acceleration"
Gina Gibbs, California State University Chico, "The Networked Classroom"
148

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 148

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Writing Programs

D.35	 Acknowledging Difference: Revamping First-Year
Composition, Developmental Writing, and Assessment
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: Sharon Gallagher, Pennsylvania State University, Erie-Behrend
Speakers: Nicholas Behm, Elmhurst College, IL, "Racialized Assessment:
The Linguistic Architecture of Whiteness in the National Assessment of
Educational Progress"
Kimberly Harrison, Florida International University, Miami, "Recognizing
Multilingualism as the Norm: Re-Envisioning First-Year Composition at
a Hispanic-Serving Institution"
Julie Swedin, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "An Open Pathway
for Developmental Writers: One Model for Accelerated Learning at a
Hispanic-Serving Institution"
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "An
Open Pathway for Developmental Writers: One Model for Accelerated
Learning at a Hispanic-Serving Institution"
Shannon Hopkins, Yakima Valley Community College, WA, "An Open
Pathway for Developmental Writers: One Model for Accelerated Learning at a Hispanic-Serving Institution"
Writing Programs

D.36	 Digital Empowerment for Civic and Community
Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
Chair: Nick Carbone, Bedford/St. Martins, New York, NY
Speakers: James Baker, University of the Incarnate Word, San Antonio,
TX, "Digital Grammar: Accessing the Potential and Overcoming the
Limitations of Learning Management Systems in the Task of Administering and Assessing Multi-Section Courses"
Elise Verzosa Hurley, Illinois State University, Normal, "Visual Design in
Community Contexts: An Opening for Civic Engagement and Professional and Technical Communication"
Phillip Bratta, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Empowering Students: Transformation of Experience through Critical Autoethnography
and Digital Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	149

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 149

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Information Technologies

D.37	 "Don’t Sweat the Techne?", or Opening Access to
Technological Literacies in Composition Courses
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor
Chair: Andrea Osteen-Chinn, Mesa Community College, AZ
Speakers: Kevin Brock, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Against
NCTE’s OWI Effective Principle 2 on Technology as Not-Writing"
Jennifer Ware, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "ProgrammerJournalists, Technological Literacy and Composition! Oh, My!"
Christian Smith, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "A Place for Machine Scoring in Assessment Ecologies"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

D.38	 Opening Disability Narratives: New Models for
Self-Determination and Multimodal Practices in
Classrooms
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Chair: Glen Southergill, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Bess Fox, Marymount University, Washington, DC, "Disability
Studies in the Multimodal Classroom"
Mary Glavan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "Re-Writing
Transition: Expanding the Boundaries of ‘Service Provider’ in Secondary Education"
Emily Ferris, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, "Re-Writing
Transition: Expanding the Boundaries of ‘Service Provider’ in Secondary Education"

150

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 150

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

E Sessions: 4:45–6:00 p.m.
Featured Speakers

Regan Sommer McCoy
Lynnee D. Bonner
The Mixtape Museum:
Preserving Analog in a Digital Era
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
The Mixtape Museum (MXM) is an archive project
dedicated to advancing public understanding and appreciation of the art, history, technique, and impact
mixtapes have made around the world. While encouraging the research of mixtapes as records of time,
place and situation, it also examines the individuals
that have helped to shape their existence.
The introductions of analog recording media, i.e.
compact cassette made it possible to store, duplicate,
Regan
and manipulate how we interacted with music. The
Sommer McCoy
MXM aims to uncover how DJs used this medium to
create mixtapes that would eventually change the landscape of the music industry. Little research has been
specifically devoted to the intellectual history of these
DJ produced recordings and their artifactual qualities
and many of these analog recordings are deteriorating
and must be reformatted to ensure their existence for
study and pleasure.
In this session, Sommer will take the listener
through her journey to encourage the use of these reLynnee D. Bonner
cordings to document history and to achieve systematic preservation in the DJ community.
Lynnee Denise is a cultural producer and independent scholar who uses turntables and scholarship to create forums exploring and celebrating Afro-Diasporic electronic music. Her work is informed and inspired by social and political
movements, gender studies, and Black science fiction. Lynnee is the founder of
WildSeed Cultural Group an organization whose mission, "entertainment with
a thesis," is driven by a desire to incorporate the nontraditional elements of literature, cultural criticism and ethnomusicology into the New York, Atlanta and
South African music scene. Through an interdisciplinary approach such as podcasts and lectures, she explores the migration of Black cultural products, people
and ideas. In 2013, lynnee denise partnered with Spelman College as the first DJ

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	151

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 151

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

to present independent scholarship through a seminar series titled: HYPERLINK
"http://www.insidespelman.com/?p=6543" \t "_blank" Music, Migration and
Movement.

Featured Session

E.30 Opening Technical Communication to
Discussions of Race and Ethnicity: A Conversation
between Scholars in Technical Communication
and Rhetoric and Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII, Second Floor
Chair:
Cynthia Selfe
The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers:
Cruz Medina
Santa Clara University, CA, "Tweeting Collaborative Identity: Race, ICTs, and
Performing Latinidad"
Octavio Pimentel
Texas State University, San Marcos, "Taqueros, Luchadores, y los Brits: U.S.
Racial Rhetorics and Its Global Influence"
Miriam F. Williams, Texas State University, San Marcos, "A Review of Emerging Research in Intercultural Technical Communication"
Natasha Jones
University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "The Importance of Ethnographic
Research in Activist Networks"
Basic Writing

E.01	 Accessing an Existing Opening for Student Learning:
Using Writing Center Mentors in the Classroom and on
Facebook
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Heather Jordan, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Heather Jordan, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Facebook as Online Writing Space"
J. Clevenger, Bowling Green State University, OH, "The Possible Role of
Writing Centers in Classroom Instruction"
Susan Cruea, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Gaining Retention toward Degree Completion"
152

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 152

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Basic Writing

E.02	 Accounting for Technologies in Basic Writing, Writing
Centers, and in MOOCs
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Phillip Bode, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, "Quantitative Research on Computer Technologies in Writing Centers"
Hope Parisi, Kingsborough Community College/ City University of New
York, Brooklyn, "Sharing Students across Studio-Based Landscapes:
New Tensions and Possibilities in Basic Writing"
Meredith Singleton, University of Cincinnati, OH, "MOOCs and Basic
Writing: The MOOC as a Non-traditional Course Textbook"
Community, Civic & Public

E.04	 Crossing Over Colonized Borders: Open Archives,
Political Activism, and Composition Studies in the
Digital Age
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington, "The Globalized Living Room"
Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "The Cherokee
Nation: Digitizing and De-Colonializing the Archives"
Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine, "The Irvine 11: Palestine, Israel, and Student Activism"
Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY, "Writing beyond the Curriculum:
The Arab Spring, Digital Archives, and the Activist Writing Classroom"
Respondent: Dala Ghandour, Activist in Arab Spring, Syracuse, NY
Community, Civic & Public

E.05	 Open-Sourcing Democracy: Pathocentric Partnerships,
Civic/Corporate Duty, and a Rhetoric of Information
Technology
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: G. Bret Bowers, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith
Speakers: G. Bret Bowers, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith, "Hacking
the Discipline—iSchools, Composition, and Disciplinarity"
Kellan Deardorff, Bowling Green University, OH, "The Citizen Rhetor Circa 2014: Propaganda and Pedagogy Four Years after Citizens United vs.
Federal Election Committee"
Amir Hassan, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Rising to the Challenge of
Pathocentrism: Using YouTube to Respond to Propaganda"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	153

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 153

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

E.06	 Writing in the Service of Change: Activism, Critical
Consciousness, and the Working Class
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Jennifer Enoch, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Maria Conti, Kent State University, OH, "Opening Up to Interdisciplinarity in Service-Learning: Effective Student Transformations in
Critical Consciousness"
Ashley Burns, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "From the Individual to the Universal: The Relative Ease and Importance of Incorporating
Social Justice in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Megan Hall, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "From the Individual to the Universal: The Relative Ease and Importance of Incorporating
Social Justice in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Lindsey Fenner, University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire, "The People’s Writing, the People’s Culture: Workers’ Education and Meridel Le Sueur’s
Praxis of Writing for the Working Class"
Sarah Finn, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Student Writing for Social Change: Campus Activism and Classroom Transformation"
Information Technologies

E.08	 From Free Play to Fair Use: Examining Pedagogies,
Complexities, and Challenges of Integrating Multimodal
Compositions in the Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Lisa Litterio, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Barbara Lewis, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY,
"Transformations? Writing Centers’ Move toward the Multimodal"
Jason Custer, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Free Play: Shifting to
Sustainable Practices for Video Games in Composition Pedagogy"
Lisa Litterio, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Creative Citing: Using
Multimodal Compositions as Platforms for Fair Use Practices and Engaging Pedagogies"
Information Technologies

E.09	 Futures for Composition and Communication:
Opening Research and Teaching to Issues of
E-Waste and E-Justice
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Shawn Apostel, Bellarmine University, Louisville, KY
Speakers: Kristi Apostel, Smarthinking, Inc., Louisville, KY, "Mobile Devices, Eco Challenges: Finding Second Life outside the Classroom"

154

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 154

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

H. Lewis Ulman, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Composing Horizons of Care, Engagement, and Collaboration"
Shannon Madden, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "E-Waste, Wireless
Writing Ecologies, and Futures for Ecocomposition"
Dickie Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Exploring Local EWaste Policies and Practices"
Theory

E.10	 Multiliteracies at HBCUs
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
Chair: Ashley Humphries, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Abigail Scheg, Elizabeth City State University, NC, "Examining
Codeswitching Multiliteracies at an HBCU"
Virginia Bouie, Joliet Junior College, IL, "Thinking Black, but Writing
White: Lost in Translation"
Jenna Miller, Elizabeth City State University, NC, "Creating a Digital Advocate at an HBCU: Establishing the QEP Writing Studio Website at
Elizabeth City State University"
Information Technologies

E.11	 Open Axes: Identities, Technologies, and Pedagogies at
Play
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor
Chair: Jan Rune Holmevik, Clemson University, SC
Speakers: Patricia Fancher, Clemson University, SC, "Anatomy of a Gamer: Defining Bodies in Pedagogies of Play"
Lauren Woolbright, Clemson University, SC, "Gender(ed) Games: Play as
Pedagogy"
Steven Katz, Clemson University, SC, "Open Media, ‘Personal Customization,’ and Fabrication: Playing Virtual Ethics"
Jan Rune Holmevik, Clemson University, SC, "Open | Writing | Spaces"
Information Technologies

E.12	 Out in the Open: Exploring Mobile Phone Pedagogies and
Everyday Composing Practices
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Speakers: Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Our
Phones, Ourselves: Questioning our Mobile Writing Lives"
Robert Calton, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "The Emergence
of Open Source Writing Instruction in Mobile Environments"
Randall Monty, University of Texas-Pan American, "Cell Phones, Social
Media, and Transnational Space"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	155

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 155

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

E.13	 The Future Will Be Open Access: Economics and
Materiality of Links and Code
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Chair: Christine Maddox Martorana, Flordia State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Elizabeth Chamberlain, University of Louisville, KY, "Hyperlink
Economics: Online Argument and Affordances of the Link Economy"
Jimmy Butts, Wake Forest, Winston-Salem, NC, "Will Apocalyptic Writing
be Open Access?"
Michael Black, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Pinning
Down the Materiality of Open Source Software: A Brief History of
Mozilla Firefox"
Information Technologies

E.14	 Wireless Women: Gender and Access in the "Wide Open"
Web
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
Chair: Liz Lane, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Daniel Liddle, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Liz Lane, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Carrie Grant, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Institutional and Professional

E.15	 Academic Endogamy: A Roundtable Conversation
between Dual-Career Academic Couples
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Heather Springer, Washington State University, Pullman
Roundtable Leaders: Christopher Blankenship, Emporia State University,
KS, "Trailing Spouse: Cultivating Separate Academic Identities"
Anne Canavan, Emporia State University, KS, "Trailing Spouse: Cultivating Separate Academic Identities"
Russ Henderson, East Central College, Washington, MO, "‘I don’t know
where my husband is’: Maintaining Academic Autonomy in Separate
Departments"
Sue Henderson, East Central College, Washington, MO, "‘I don’t know
where my husband is’: Maintaining Academic Autonomy in Separate
Departments"
Elizabeth Deis, Hampden-Sydney College, VA, "Two Bodies, One Position: Negotiating a Job Share at a Small Liberal Arts College"
Lowell Frye, Hampden-Sydney College, VA, "Two Bodies, One Position:
Negotiating a Job Share at a Small Liberal Arts College"

156

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 156

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Brent House, California University of Pennsylvania, "Choosing the Right
Spouse: An Academic and Personal Journey"
Renae House, Venango College of Clarion University, Grove City, PA,
"Choosing the Right Spouse: An Academic and Personal Journey"
Institutional and Professional

E.16	 Gender, Labor, and the Service Economy in Writing and
English Studies: Rewarding and Revaluing Service
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Michelle Payne, Boise State University, ID, "Administration,
Emotional Labor, and Gendered Discourses of Power: A Feminist
Chair’s Mission to Make Service Matter"
Jennifer Heinert, University of Wisconsin-Washington County, "Gender
and the Service Economy in Community Colleges: Assessing and Valuing Service"
Cassandra Phillips, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha, "Gender and the
Service Economy in Community Colleges: Assessing and Valuing Service"
Respondent: Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY
Institutional and Professional

E.17	 Polymorphic Frames of Pre-Tenure WPAs: Eight Accounts
of Hybridity and Pronoia
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair: Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Speakers: Matt Dowell, Le Moyne College, Syracuse, NY, "Getting Up to
Speed Quickly: The Untenured WPA and Curricular Change"
Rik Hunter, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, "Teaching the Teachers: Designing a FYW Curriculum for Non-Writing Specialists"
Kate Pantelides, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Why Won’t This
Thing Open? Negotiating New WPA Identity"
Kristine Kellejian, University of Washington-Bothell, "Flight of the Bumblebee: Creating a Writing Program at an Interdisciplinary University"
Mike Garcia, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, "Everything’s a Moving
Target: WPA Work in the Midst of Comprehensive Institutional Change"
Laura Davies, United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO,
"Boots on the Ground: Negotiating Military Contexts as a Civilian WPA"
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Assembling Handles for Divergent Grasps"
Alanna Frost, University of Alabama, Huntsville, "Axis and Allies: Strategies for Untenured WPAs"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	157

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 157

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.18	 Composition and Communication: Looking Forward,
Looking Back
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor
Chair: Roxanne Mountford, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: William Keith, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Roxanne Mountford, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.19	 Critical Creativity, (Re)Design, and (Re)Sourcing: Hacking
the Body Politic
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Mary Ann Cain, Indiana University Purdue University, Fort Wayne
Speakers: Mary Ann Cain, Indiana University Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, "Making It Up and Passing It On: The Legacy of Dr. Margaret
Burroughs"
George Kalamaras, Indiana University Purdue University, Fort Wayne,
"Walking through the Door of Language in Writing a Poem: The Practice of the Outside"
Sally Griffin, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Using the Spiritual
to Disrupt Corporate Logic and Lift the Body"
Lil Brannon, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Improvisation and
Disruptions of the Body Politic"
Theory

E.20	 Open Dialogue: Gender Identities, The Sciences and
Feminist Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University,	 NJ
Speakers: Mara Holt, Ohio University, Athens, "Differences Within: From
Consensus to Multivalent Identities in Feminist Pedagogy"
James Briggs, California State University, Los Angeles, "Consilient Knowledge: Pedagogical Strategies for More Open Dialogue between the Sciences and the Humanities regarding Gender and Sexuality"
Juan Mendoza, California State University, Los Angeles, "Consilient
Knowledge: Pedagogical Strategies for More Open Dialogue between
the Sciences and the Humanities regarding Gender and Sexuality"

158

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 158

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

E.21	 Opening Textbooks, Opening Possibilities: A Writing
Program-Academic Library Collaboration
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Casey Boyle, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Fiona Harris-Ramsby, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Beyond the Textbook: Writing Program/Library Connections and Possibilities"
Darby Fanning, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Supporting Research
in First-Year Writing: Library Coordination and Student Access"
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Administration to Authorship: Leveraging Local Program Resources for an In-House Textbook"
Language

E.22	 Towards the Translingual Classroom: Investigating
Multilingual Writers’ Expectations, Experiences,
and Aspirations
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor
Chair: Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Speakers: Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Understanding Difference: Results from a Study of the Expectations and Experiences of Multilingual Writers"
Kristi Girdharry, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Moving from
Quantitative to Qualitative Methods to Investigate Multilingual Writers’
Experiences"
Michael Dedek, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Piloting a Translingual Approach: Case Studies from a First-Year Translingual Writing
Course"
Jonathan Benda, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Diversity at a Globalizing University: The Institutional Context for a Study of Multilingual Writers"
Professional and Technical Writing

E.23	 Rhetorical Futures in Workplaces and Industry
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Josh Mehler, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Aaron Toscano, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Outsourcing Technical Writing: Multiple Technical Writing Futures"
Laurence Jose, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI, "Opening
Professional Writing Genres to the Global Context: Resumes as Contact
Zones"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	159

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 159

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Robert Irish, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, "Understanding the
Rhetorical Sources of Disagreement among Engineers"
Jennifer Marciniak, University of Louisville, KY, "Brokering Literacy
Work: Education, Fracking, and Workforce Recruitment Strategies"
Research

E.24	 Open(ing) Sources, Access, and the Future in Data-Driven
Research: Three Problems for the Field
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Sharon McGee, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville
Speakers: Pamela Takayoshi, Kent State University, OH, "Open(ing) the
Future in Data-Driven Research: Seeing Research Rhetorically"
Sharon McGee, Southern Illinois University, Edwardsville, "Open(ing)
Sources in Data-Driven Research: Eliminating Barriers"
Joanne Addison, University of Colorado Denver, "Open(ing) Access in
Data-Driven Research: Revising Our Practices"
Research

E.25	 Shaming, Blaming, and Gaming: Rhetoric and Violence in
Contemporary American Culture
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Beth Huber, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC
Speakers: Daniel Reardon, Missouri University of Science and Technology, Rolla, "Dialogic, Ludonarrative, and Identity: Metalanguage and
Detached Self in the Rhetoric of Gaming Violence"
Marsha Lee Baker, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC, "Media,
Memory, and Mass Murderers"
Beth Huber, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC, "Praise the Lord
and Pass the Ammunition: Civil-Religious Rhetoric and the Debate Over
Guns"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.26	 Citizenship across the Curriculum: A Cross-Disciplinary
Approach to Constructing Community
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: Sarah Pike, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth
Speakers: Sharon Harris, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Opening a Connection between Science and Humanities in the Composition
Classroom"
Breanna Kreimeyer, Iowa State University, Ames, "Citizen-Scientists: Enacting Agency through Public Science Communication Projects"

160

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 160

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Denise Tillery, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, "Citizen Expertise on Social Media: Scientific and Technical Discourse on Facebook"
Sarah Pike, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "From Campus to Cosmopolitan Citizens: Composing the Spheres of Citizenship"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.27	 Feedback and Student Writing: From FYC to Graduate
Classrooms to Machine Scoring
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
Chair: Joseph Farago-Spencer, California State University, San Bernardino
Speakers: Hidy Basta, Antioch University, Seattle, "’They Hate/Love My
Work’: Graduate Students’ Emotional Response to Feedback and Its
Role in the Revision Process"
William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Making A Nuanced Evidence-Based Argument against Machine Scoring of
Student Writing"
Jennifer Gray, College of Coastal Georgia, Brunswick, "Sourcing Student
Feedback to Sculpt Effective yet Enjoyable (GASP!) Assignments"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.28	 It’s Not Our Mentors’ World: Transformations in
Composition Pedagogies, 2000 to Today
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Second Floor
Chair: Amy Rupiper Taggart, North Dakota State University, Fargo
Speakers: Krista Kennedy, Syracuse University, NY, "Collaborative Writing: Print to Digital"
Amy Rupiper Taggart, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Defining
Composition Pedagog(y)(ies)"
Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, "Teaching and Learning through Community/University Partnerships"
Rebecca Powell, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, "Hidden in
Plain Sight: De/Reconstructing Expressivism"
Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati, OH, "What’s Feminist about
Pedagogy?"
H. Brooke Hessler, Oklahoma City University, OK, "Digital Humanities
and Multimodal Composition as Quasi-Emergent Pedagogies"
Chris Thaiss, University of California Davis, "WAC/WID: Five Filaments
of Growth"
Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Reconfiguring the Use
of Literature in Writing Courses"
Amy Devitt, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Taking Genre Outside"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	161

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 161

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.29	 Opening Access between Veterans, Civilians,
Higher Education, and Communities
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Chair: Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Portsmouth
Speakers: Roger Thompson, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, "Accessing Training, Opening Dialogue: Helping Writing Faculty Know
More about Who Student Veterans Are"
D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College, Meadville, PA, "Accessing Training,
Opening Dialogue: Helping Writing Faculty Know More about Who
Student Veterans Are"
Travis Martin, University of Kentucky, Richmond, "After Action Review:
Writing Veterans into Higher Education and the Community"
Mariana Grohowski, Bowling Green State University, OH, "The Pragmatics to Opening Access: Collaborative, Digital, and Communal"
Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire, Portsmouth, "Responding to
Wartime Narratives: Opening Conversations between Student Veterans
and Writing Instructors"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.31	 Resistance Is Futile? Questioning MOOCs, Cyborgs, and
Composition’s Future
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Chair: Andrew Blake, DESU
Speakers: Janel Bloch, Northern Kentucky University, Newport, "Experiencing MOOCs from a Student’s Viewpoint: Potentials and Possible
Pitfalls of Massive Open Online Courses with a Writing Component"
Anne Ernest, Washington State University, Pullman, "Missed Objectives
or Cutting-Edge?: A Writing Instructor’s Analysis of an English 101
MOOC"
Drew Kopp, Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ, "The Digital Enkyklios Paideia: MOOCs and the 21st Century Renaissance Cyborg"
Jason Lovvorn, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, "Open Sourcing the
College Composition Teacher: Using MOOCs for Professional Development and Pedagogical Improvement"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

E.32	 Three’s a Charm: Strategies for Responding to
Multimodal Student Work as a Teacher, a Tutor,
and a Peer
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
Chair: Candice Welhausen, University of Delaware, Newark

162

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 162

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Speakers: Candice Welhausen, University of Delaware, Newark, "Reading, Writing, and Responding: Using Peer Review to Guide Revision of
Multimodal Texts"
Joe Turner, University of Delaware, Newark, "Adapting Rubrics across
Modes and Media"
Barb Lutz, University of Delaware, Newark, "Training Writing Center Tutors for Multimodal Consultations"
Theory

E.33	 Places, Spaces, Bodies, Publics
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
Chair: Danielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Liza Potts, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Spaces of/
as Participatory Memory"
Danielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Civic
Disobedience: Graffiti as Rhetorical Tactic"
Katie Manthey, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Everyday Bodies: Theorizing Dress as Rhetorical Action"
Theory

E.34	 Refusing to Adapt: Negotiating Resistance to Textual and
Visual Censorship
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
Chair: Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Dora Ramirez-Dhoore, Boise State University, ID, "Dolores del
Río’s Censorship and Filmic Identity in 1940’s Cinema"
Ana Isabel Roncero Bellido, Illinois State University, Normal, "Code Meshing, Testimonio, and the Mestiza Consciousness: Tactics of Survival"
Monica Brown, Boise State University, ID, "Black Radical Thought: W.E.B.
Du Bois, Censorship, and White Privilege"
Theory

E.35	 Spaces of Invention: The Museum, the Collection, the
Screen
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor
Chair: Susan H. Delagrange, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: Susan H. Delagrange, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "13
ways (and Counting): Speculative Design and a Visual Canon of Invention"
Elizabeth Weiser, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "A Museum Isn’t
a House, It’s an Idea in Debate"
Nan Johnson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Collecting Rhetorical
Culture"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	163

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 163

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Information Technologies

E.36	 Audience, Citizenship, and Literacies in an Expanding
Web
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor
Chair: Kathy Hall, Mt. San Antonio College, Walnut, CA
Speakers: Joshua Paiz, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Expanding
Audiences for Online Writing Labs: OWLs in the English as a Foreign
Language Context"
Edward Helfers, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, "Let
the Grammar Games Begin: Evaluating (and Envisioning) ComputerAssisted L2 Sentence-Level Instruction"
Keshab Acharya, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "E-literacy for Senior Citizens: Motivation, Technology Design, and New Public
Sphere"
Geoffrey Middlebrook, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Digital Citizenship: Leveraging the Web for Experiential Learning"
Academic Writing

E.37	 Appropriation, Attribution, Plagiarism: Laying Open the
Complex Codes of Textuality
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: Susan Delaney, Ithaca College, NY
Speakers: Mary Lourdes Silva, Ithaca College, NY, "Looking for Transfer:
The Generic Discursive Resources and Rhetorical Strategies of Citation
Use"
Susan Delaney, Ithaca College, NY, "Analyzing Plagiarism, Foregrounding
Complexity: Meta-awareness and Source Integration"
Carolyn Ostrander, Syracuse University, NY, "Read-Shifting, Read-Mixing, Read-Meshing: Complex Literacy as Linguistic Agility"
Hillory Oakes, Bates College, Lewiston, ME, "Not an Open and Shut Case:
The Need for Nuance in Academic Integrity Policies"

164

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 164

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

E.38	 Transformations, Design, and Redesign: Iterating
Composition and Communication Futures at a
Liberal-Professional University
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: David Rogers, Philadelphia University, PA
Speakers: David Rogers, Philadelphia University, PA
Stacey Van Dahm, Philadelphia University, PA
Katie Gindlesparger, Philadelphia University, PA
Valerie Hanson, Philadelphia University, PA
Information Technologies

E.40	 A Journey toward Open-Access Multimedia Writing
Support: A Quest for the Excelsior College OWL
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Crystal Sands, Excelsior College, Albany, NY
Speakers: Deborah Chapin, University at Albany, NY
Andrea Dardello, Howard Community College, MD
Crystal Sands, Excelsior College, Albany, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	165

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 165

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30–7:30 p.m.
	

Community, Civic & Public

TSIG.01	 2014 CCCC Community Literacy, Service-Learning, and
Public Rhetorics SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Allen Brizee, Loyola University, Chicago, IL
	
Cindy Mooty, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
	

Basic Writing

TSIG.02	 2014 Council on Basic Writing SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, City
University of New York, NY
	
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA
	
	
Community, Civic & Public

TSIG.03	 Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy
	
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
	
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University Purdue University, Fort
Wayne
	

Professional and Technical Writing

TSIG.04	 EngiComm: Communication in the Engineering
Curriculum SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 104,, First Floor
	Co-Chairs: Mya Poe, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park
	
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
	
Stephen Bucher, University of Southern California, Viterbi School of
Engineering, Los Angeles
	
Rob Irish, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada

166

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 166

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Institutional and Professional

TSIG.05	 Faculty Development and Composition
	
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
	Chair: Claire Lamonica, Illiois State University, Normal
	Theory

TSIG.06	 Kenneth Burke Society at CCCC
	
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
	Chair: Ethan Sproat, Utah Valley University, Orem
	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

TSIG.07	 Klal Rhetoric: Jewish Rhetorics and Composition SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
	Chair: Janice Fernheimer, University of Kentucky, Lexington
	Language

TSIG.08	 Language, Linguistics, and Writing
	
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
	Co-Chairs: Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, NY
	
Craig Hancock, University at Albany, NY
	

Professional and Technical Writing

TSIG.09	 Medical Rhetoricians
	
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
	Chair: Barbara Heifferon, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
	History

TSIG.10	 National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric
	
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
	
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College, Danielson,
CT
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

TSIG.11	 Progressive Approaches to Grammar, Punctuation, and
Usage
	
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
	Chair: Joseph Salvatore, The New School, Jackson Heights, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	167

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 167

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Institutional and Professional

TSIG.12	 Retired and Retiring Faculty in Rhetoric/Composition/
Writing SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
	Chair: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
	History

TSIG.13	 Rhetoric’s Histories: Traditions, Theories, Pedagogies,
and Practices
	
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
	Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
	Language

TSIG.14	 Second Language Writing Standing Group: New Directions for Second Language Writing at the CCCC
	
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro
	
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
	

Institutional and Professional

TSIG.15	 Standing Group on Disability Studies
	
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
	Chair: Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver
	
Community, Civic & Public

TSIG.16	 Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy, Research, and Literacies
	
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY
	
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, MI
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

TSIG.17	 The Role of Reading in Composition Studies
	
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
	
Debrah Huffman, Indiana University Purdue University, Fort Wayne

168

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 168

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday, 6:00–10:00 p.m.

	

Writing Programs

TSIG.18	 Untenured Writing Program Administrators
	
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
	Chair: Thomas Sura, West Virginia University, Morgantown
	

Institutional and Professional

TSIG.19	 Women’s Network
	
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
	Chair: Heather Adams, University of Alaska, Anchorage
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

TSIG.20	 Writing about Writing: FYC as Introduction to Writing
Studies
	
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor
	Co-Chairs: Barbara Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN
	
Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas, Permian Basin, Odessa
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

TSIG.21	 Zen and the Art of English Teacher Maintenance
	
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
	Co-Chairs: Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT
	
Sharon Marshall, St. John’s University, New York, NY
	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

TSIG.22	 Cognition and Writing: ‘A Conversation with John
Hayes: Contemporary Perspectives on Cognitive Science and Writing’
	
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: J. Michael Rifenburg, University of North Georgia, Gainesville
	
Patricia Portanova, University of New Hampshire, Durham

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	169

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 169

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Thursday Evening Events
Scholars for the Dream Reception
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.
AA
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
ALANON
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.

170

a1-170-4Cs-2014.indd 170

2/4/14 3:08 PM

Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Friday, March 21
REGISTRATION 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
JW Marriott, Griffin Hall, Second Floor
EXHIBITS 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
JW Marriott, Griffin Hall, Second Floor
Computer Connection/Digital Posters
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom Foyer, Third Floor
TYCA Editorial Board Meeting
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IX, Third Floor
7:30 a.m.–8:30 a.m.
Nominating Committee
JW Marriott, Room 307, Third Floor
9:30 a.m.–11:30 a.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 171

171

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F Sessions: 8:00–9:15 a.m.
F.01	

Academic Writing

Collaboration Unbound: Expanding Partnerships between
Teachers, Students, and Scholars
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Kate Vieira, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Anna Floch, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Collaboration
among Scholars: Reimagining the Function of Single Authorship in the
Field"
Stephanie Larson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Collaboration
among Students: Re-evaluating Multimodal Composing and Researching through Board Gaming"
Annika Konrad, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Collaboration among
Graduate-Student Teachers: Using Partnerships to Challenge the Limits
of A Pre-Determined Writing Curriculum"
Respondent: Kate Vieira, University of Wisconsin-Madison

F.02	

Academic Writing

Opening up Disciplinary Discourses: Revealing Instability,
Heterogeneity, and Cross-Disciplinarity in WAC/WID
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Chair: Amelia Herb, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Speakers: Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC,
"‘Studenting’ vs. Disciplinary Enculturation: Examining Cross-Disciplinary Patterns of Stance in Student Coursework Genres in Three WID
Courses "
Andrea Olinger, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Fixity and
Flux in ‘Writing Style’ in Psychology"
Amelia Herb, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, "Heterogeneous Discourses: Tracing the ‘Science’ in Library and Information
Science"

F.03	

Basic Writing

Hacking the Mainframe: Empowering Basic Writers
Enrolled in Gateway Courses
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Chair: Joy Barber, City College Montana State University, Bozeman
Speakers: Christopher Janus, Seminole State College, Sanford, FL, "One
Size Doesn’t Fit All: A Case against the Managerial Developmental
Writing Instructor"

172

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 172

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Caitlin Carle, University of Washington-Tacoma, "‘Why Am I in This
Class?’ Reimagining Authority in a FYC Class for Non-First Year Students"
Joy Barber, City College Montana State University, Bozeman, "Makeshift
Developmental Redesign: Working with a Modified SLA in FYC"

F.04	

Community, Civic & Public

Barack Obama’s Significance for Composition and
Communication: An Open Question
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Ira Allen, Indiana University Bloomington, OR
Speakers: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston, "Teaching the
Election, Teaching the Debates"
Elizabeth Flynn, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "Obama
and Feminist Rhetoric"
Ira Allen, Indiana University Bloomington, OR, "Why Obama Is Bad for
Rhetoric"
Nicole Ashanti McFarlane, Fayetteville State University, NC, "How Obama
Is Good for Rhetoric: But I Ain’t Even Say Anything Yet (. . . Lemme
Hear You Make Some Noise)"

F.05	

Research

Multilingual Realities: Citizenship, Literacy, and
Intercultural Writing Class
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Natalie Dorfeld, Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne
Speakers: Maria Pilar Milagros Garcia, Koç University, Sariyer, Istanbul,
"Assessing Knowledge Negotiations through Activities that Incorporate
Social Media in an Intercultural Writing Class"
Emily Simnitt, Boise State/Indiana University of Pennsylvania, ID, "Opening Composition and Communities to Translingual Practice: Using Cultural Negotiation and Translation to Improve Early Childhood Literacy
and Build on Student Multi-Competencies"
Shui-yin Sharon Yam, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "How Open
Trade Policies Concretize National Identities: A Case Study of Hong
Kong and China"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 173

173

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.06	

Community, Civic & Public

The Politics of Digital Literacies: Perspectives on the
Personal, the Marginal, and the Public
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Chair: Barbara Filippidis, St. Edward’s University, Austin, TX
Speakers: Tara Propper, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Opening Up the
Public: A Genealogy of Periodical Culture from Print to Digital"
Deborah Kuzawa, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "The Personal is
Academic: The Digital Archive of Literacy Narratives"

F.07	

History

. . . And the Archival Walls Came Tumbling Down—
21st Century Historiography: Opening Histories,
Sharing Revisions, and Democratizing Texts
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Joy Karega, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Philip Blackmon, Alabama State University, Montgomery,
"Where Is Open Access When You Need It?"
Joy Karega, University of Louisville, KY, "By Any Means Necessary: Towards a Radical Democratization of Historiographic Work on Black
Rhetorics and Literate Practices"
Michelle Bachelor Robinson, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "A
21st Century Collaboration with 19th Century Sources: Revisioning and
Democratizing Big Brother’s Historical Texts"
Leah DiNatale, the Uiversity of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "A 21st Century Collaboration with 19th Century Sources: Revisioning and Democratizing
Big Brother’s Historical Texts:

F.08	

Information Technologies

An Open Architecture: Inscribing Social Media, Play,
Collaboration, and Real Audiences into First-Year
Writing Courses"
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Susan Ghiaciuc, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
Speakers: Cathryn Molloy, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA,
"Beyond Digital Divides: Open Architecture and Web Authoring for Students Slated as Content Consumers"
Sarah O’Connor, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "An Invitation to Play: Students’ Creative Responses to Multimedia Composing
and Choice"
Sean McCarthy, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Embeddable Objects, Narrative Flows: The Agency of Social Media Platforms
in the First-Year Classroom"

174

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 174

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Susan Ghiaciuc, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Relationships in Flux: Exploring Interpersonal Dynamics and Sponsors of Literacy in Experimental Course Designs"

F.09	

Information Technologies

Gaming, MOOCs, and Constructivist Habits of Mind
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair:
Speakers: Kyle Bohunicky, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Writing
Limits: The Problem of Open-Play in Ecocomposition and Videogames"
Sherry Jones, University of Colorado, Denver, "Composition on a New
Scale: Game Studies in the Key of Massive Open Online Composition"
Phill Alexander, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Questioning the MOOC’s
MO: What Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games Have to
Tell Us about the Massive Open Online Course"
Maureen Fitzpatrick, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park,
KS, "Ignite and Play—Thinking in a Gaming Habit of Mind"

F.10	

Information Technologies

Online Writing Instruction (OWI) Principles and Effective
Practices: Year One—Institutional Matters
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Diane Martinez, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC
Speakers: Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma
Diane Martinez, Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC
Leslie Olsen, Bellevue University, Everett, WA
Beth Hewett, University of Maryland University College, Adelphi, MD

F.11	

Information Technologies

Personal Disclosures, Trust, and Openness
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair:
Speakers: Rachael Jordan, California State University, Channel Islands,
"Johnny Depp’s Eyeliner: Using Tumblr to Teach and Rewrite Sexual
Literac(ies)"
Abigail Bakke, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Complicating
Openness: Trust and Disclosure in Medical Social Networks"
Rob McAlear, University of Tulsa, OK, "The Effects of Open Records on
Professorial and Administrative Communication"
Kaitlin Marks-Dubbs, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "‘Coming Out’ from the Medial Gaze: An Examination of Policies and Practices in Emerging Social Media"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 175

175

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.12	

Institutional and Professional

Assessment, Integrated Student Services, and Curricular
Change: Forging the Trifecta of Student Development
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
Chair: Joseph Paszek, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Jule Wallis, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Joseph Paszek, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Amy Metcalf, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI

F.13	

Institutional and Professional

Revisiting Laramie: Considering the Past, Present, and
Future Working Conditions of the Wyoming Resolution a
Quarter-Century Later
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Risa P. Gorelick, Research Network Forum, Summit, NJ
Speakers: Jennifer Kunka, Francis Marion University, Florence, SC, "Data
That Means Something: A Cross-Institutional Quantitative Study of
Writing Center Efficacy"
Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Data That
Means Something: A Cross-Institutional Quantitative Study of Writing
Center Efficacy"
Randall McClure, Miami University, FL, "A Case Study Revisited: How a
Data-Rich Statement Could Have Saved the Day"
Risa P. Gorelick, Research Network Forum, Summit, NJ, "Open | (Source)
Can of Worms: The Wyoming Resolution’s Failure to Impact the Research Network Forum"
Dayna Goldstein, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Theorizing the
Statement: Quantitative Loci and Research on Working Conditions"

F.14	

Institutional and Professional

Violence of Assessment: Theoretical and Practical
Considerations
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Chair: Nicole Warwick, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Jennifer K. Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara,
"‘This Paper is Terrible!’: The Role of Assessment in Damaging Students Self-Efficacy"
Nicole Warwick, University of California, Santa Barbara, "A Case (Study)
of Violence in Assessment: The Exit Writing Exam at One California
State University"
Josh Lederman, Wellesley College, Somerville, MA, "Validation as Critical
Inquiry into the Often Invisible Violence of Assessment"
Ronit Sarig, California State University, Northridge, "The Damage of
MOOCs: The Irresponsibility Involved in Self and Peer Assesment"

176

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 176

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.15	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Meaning-Making in the Disciplines: Writing for Science,
Math, Business, and Nursing
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Chester St. H. Mills, SUNO
Speakers: Jiajia He, University of International Business and Economics,
Beijing, "Empowering Students to Explore the World We Live In—Scaffolding Meaningful Inquiries in a Business Writing Class"
Megan Bardolph, University of Louisville, KY, "Rhetorical Problem-Solving and Transfer of Learning in College Algebra and FYC"
Leslie Atkins, California State University, Chico, "Composition in Scientific Inquiry: SeauratSpots, Disco Balls, and the Making of Meaning in
Science"
Kim Jaxon, California State University, Chico, "Composition in Scientific
Inquiry: SeauratSpots, Disco Balls, and the Making of Meaning in Science"

F.16	

Language

In Terms of Being ‘Open’: Reframing the Terms of
Cross-Language Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: Beatrice Quarshie Smith, Michigan Technological University,
Houghton
Speakers: Nancy DeJoy, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Beatrice Quarshie Smith, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
Ronald Strickland, Michigan Technological University, Houghton

F.17	

Language

The "Translingual Turn" in Rhetoric and Composition:
Bridging the Divide between Theories and Practices
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York, Jamaica,
NY
Speakers: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York,
"Overcoming Barriers to Faculty Multicompetence: Why Writing Teachers Need to Develop Literacies in Multiple Languages (and What Prevents Them from Doing So)"
Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, NY, "Translating Success:
Academic Transition Narratives of Multilingual Students as Teaching
Tools in the Writing Classroom"
Shawna Shapiro, Middlebury College, VT, "The Discourse of Linguistic
Diversity in and around Composition: Mapping Rhetoric, Policy, and
Practice"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 177

177

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.18	

Research

Access and the Digital Exhibit: Revelations, Alterations,
Surprises, and Critiques
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Tarez Samra Graban, The Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe
Alexis Ramsey, Eckerd College, St. Petersburg, FL
Doreen Piano, University of New Orleans, LA

F.19	

Research

Global Healthscapes: Beyond Articulated Identity Action
Research
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Christine Photinos, NU
Speakers: Andrew Mara, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Global
Healthscapes and Body Documents: Articulated Identities as a Method"
Amy Williams, University of Utah, Park City, "Imagining Method in Community Literacy: Beyond Action Research"
Fredrik deBoer, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Opening the Methods: Statistical Hands and Rhetorical Hearts"

F.20	

Research

Teaching for Transfer: Opening Opportunities for Student
Success in Writing across Contexts
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Third Floor

Chair: Liane Robertson, William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ
Speakers: Jessie Moore, Elon University, NC
Kara Taczak, University of Denver, CO
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee

178

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 178

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.21	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Accessing Writing: Approaches to Prompts and
Free-Writing in Classrooms
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Kamal Belmihoub, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Katrina Dunbar, Illinois State University, Bloomington, "Reclaiming Free-Writing in Computer-Mediated Technical Writing Classrooms"
Kimberly Robinson Neary, Los Angeles City College, Huntington Beach,
CA, "Accessing the Rhetoric of Writing Prompts: Hacking the Source
Code"
Dawn Formo, California State University, San Marcos, "Accessing the
Rhetoric of Writing Prompts: Hacking the Source Code"
Jessie Dubreuil, Colorado College, Colorado Springs, "Making the Academic Network Accessible: The Function of Writing Prompts in a FirstYear Experience Course"
Traci Freeman, Colorado College, Colorado Springs, "Making the Academic Network Accessible: The Function of Writing Prompts in a First-Year
Experience Course"

F.22	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Composing Collaboration: A Meta-Analysis of
Collaboration in Multimodal Composition
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Kara Poe Alexander, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Speakers: Nathan Roberts, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Dustin Morrow, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Collaborating in Multiple
Dimensions: Principles and Processes in Multimodal Design"
Amy Schroeder, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Face to Face Collaboration: Writing Video Essays Together"
Nicole Bouchard, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Face to Face Collaboration: Writing Video Essays Together"

F.23	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Hacking the Hidden Curriculum for Open Source Writing:
Systemic Functional Linguistics Genre Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor
Chair: Joshua Iddings, Virginia Military Institute, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Marshall Klassen, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Benjamin Boche, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Michael Maune, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 179

179

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.24	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Mindfulness and Contemplation: Open Minds/Bodies/
Writing in Classrooms
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Megan Keaton, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Contemplative Pedagogies for Distracted Writers"
Kurt Stavenhagen, Syracuse University, NY, "Mindfulness Classroom Exercises as Inquiry"
Kristin DeMint, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, "Mindfulness Meditation in the Writing Classroom: Results of a Qualitative Study"

F.25	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Pedagogical Fragments, or the Things We Delete
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

Chair: Jason Palmeri, Miami University, Oxford , OH
Speakers: Devon Ralston, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Open to Failure"
Jonathan Rylander, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Letting Pedagogies
Bleed"
John Silvestri, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Spray Painting over Teacher Ethos"

F.27	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Winning Access: Assembling Open Source Networks as
Writing Games
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Chair: Guiseppe Getto, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Speakers: Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Winning (beyond) the FYC Writing Game: Opening Writing Networks"
Jack Labriola, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "From Student to Professional: Role-Playing Writers and Professional Gamers"
Nathan Franklin, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA, "Towards an Object-Oriented Ontology of Gamification: Writing Games,
Rules Development, and Critical Success"
Guiseppe Getto, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, "Towards an
Object-Oriented Ontology of Gamification: Writing Games, Rules Development, and Critical Success"

180

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 180

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.28	

Theory

Getting Ontological: Opening Writing and Writing Studies
to Theorizing What Writing Is
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: John Whicker, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Sidney I. Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Rise of the
Machines"
J.A. Rice, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green, "(Re)Opening the
Logos: Toward a New Rhetoric of Writing Theory"
John Whicker, Ohio University, Athens, "Opening Writing(‘s) Material:
From Material to Writing"

F.29	

Theory

Open Rhetorical Filmmaking: Aesthetics, Ethics,
Cognition, and Production
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor

Chair: Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Don Unger, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Open Ethics: Filmmaking, Field Research, and Feminist Methods in First-Year
Composition"
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Open Filmmaking: A Taxonomy of Rhetoricians’ Film and Video Production"
Bonnie Lenore Kyburz, Lewis University, Romeoville, IL, "Open Aesthetics"
Nathaniel Rivers, Saint Louis University, MO, "Open Invention: This Is
Your Brain on Film"

F.30	

Theory

Terms of Decolonization: Latinidad and the Study of
Writing, Rhetoric, and Literacy
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Chair: Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University San Marcos
Speakers: Iris Ruiz, University of California-Merced, "Post-Racial Ideology and Faculty of Color: A Counter-Story"
Raul Sanchez, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Decolonizing Composition: Good Luck with That"
Respondent: Romeo Garcia, Corpus Christi, TX

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 181

181

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.31	

Writing Programs

Breaking the Cycle of Ineffective Research Instruction
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Cruz Medina, Santa Clara University, CA
Speakers: Sandra Jamieson, Drew University, Madison, NJ
Tricia Serviss, Auburn University, AL
Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA

F.32	

Writing Programs

Making Change: The Evolution of WAC/WID Programs
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

Chair: Nneka Osakwe, Albany State University, GA
Speakers: Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington,
"Making Tutor Knowledge Useful: Writing Centers and WID as Partners in Change"
Dominique Zino, City University of New York Graduate Center, New York,
NY, "Behind Closed Doors, Creating Open Windows: Evaluating a Hybrid Model for WAC/WID Faculty Development Workshops"
Rachel Holtz, Northeastern Illinois University, Chicago, "The Language of
Discourse Community Initiation: A Case Study of Linguistic Repetition
in the WAC Writing Center"
Susan Dinitz, University of Vermont, Burlington, "Making Tutor Knowledge Useful: Writing Centers and WID as Partners in Change"
Laura Brady, West Virginia University, Morgantown, "Evolutionary Metaphors for Understanding WAC/WID"

F.33	

Writing Programs

The Future Is Wide Open: Professionalizing
Undergraduate Writing Majors
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor

Chair: Cynthia Martin, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
Speakers: Brooke Covington, James Madison University, Harrisonburg,
VA, "Vertical Scaffolding from a Student Perspective"
Cynthia Martin, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Expanding
Definitions, Forging New Paths"
Erin Lambert Hartman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "The
Digital Portfolio: Preparing to Enter a Profession"
Karen McDonnell, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Language, Law, and Ethics: Learning How to Protect One’s Professional
Work (and One’s Behind)"
Lucy Bednar, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Language as
an Essential Tool of Editing"
Shelley Aley, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "The Student
Researcher-Scholar: Inquiring, Professionalizing"

182

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 182

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Heather Comfort, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "Inducting
Students into a Discipline: The Role of the Gateway Course in Writing
Majors"

F.34	

Writing Programs

Online Practices: Tutors, Writing Centers, and Assessment
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Fiona Glade, University of Baltimore, MD
Speakers: Matthew Pifer, Husson University, Bangor, ME
Matthew Ortoleva, Worcester State University, Shrewsbury, MA, "Giving Undergraduate Students Access to Our Meaning-Making Processes
through an Assessment-as-Research Orientation"
Deborah Bertsch, Columbus State Community College, OH, "‘Delicate Negotiations:’ Towards a Discourse of Construction in Asynchronous Online Writing Center Consultations"
Theresa Flynn, Pepperdine University, Malibu, CA, "Why Writers Need
Online Writing Tutors: Meeting the Needs of the 21st Century Learner"

F.35	

Writing Programs

Writing Center Complexities: Pushing Students to Excel
in Their Writing
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Katherine V. Wills, Indiana University Purdue University, Columbus
Speakers: Zuzana Tomas, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Capturing the Complexity of Plagiarism: Writing Center Tutor Perspectives"
Jill Belli, New York City College of Technology, City University of New
York, NY, "The Composition of Happiness: Freshman Writers’ Assessment of Well-Being in Higher Education"
Daniel Lawson, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant, "The Rhetorical Construction of Emotion in Writing Center Studies"

F.36	

History

Rhetoric, Civic Participation, and Access
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY, "Rhetorical Education
and the Complexity of Access"
Glenn McClish, San Diego State University, CA, "‘To Furnish Specimens
of Negro Eloquence’: William J. Simmons’s Men of Mark as a Late
Nineteenth-Century Site of African American Rhetorical Education"
Candace Epps-Robertson, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Declaim and Debate Today, and ‘Their Voices will Resound in the Halls of
Congress’"
Linda Ferreira-Buckley, University of Texas at Austin, "Declaim and Debate Today, and ‘Their Voices will Resound in the Halls of Congress’"
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 183

183

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.37	

Community, Civic & Public

The Politics of Pedagogy in Composition and Rhetoric:
Perspectives on Space, Race, and Embedded Hierarchies
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Rachel Jackson, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Aaron Kerley, University of Cincinnati, Gateway Community
College, OH, "Climbing Up: Embedded Hierarchies and a Cross-Institutional Examination of Compositional Pedagogies"
Stephen Whitley, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "’Dog Whistle’ Rhetoric: Pedagogy and the Not So Hidden Rhetoric of	Racism in Modern
American Politics"
Ashley Holmes, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Open Classrooms, Public Sites: Locating a Theory of Public Pedagogy"

F.38	

Theory

Rethinking Difference in Composing Composition:
Language, Translation, Genre, Modality
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Cynthia Selfe, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "The Disciplining Disposition of Print"
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY, "Rethinking Key Terms for
Difference in Composition"
Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Washington, Seattle, "(Re)thinking Translation as Translingual Meaning Making and Writerly Agency"
Juan Guerra, University of Washington, Seattle, "Under Siege: The Necessary Work of Language Insurgents in the Writing Classroom"
Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle, "Beyond the Genre Fixation: Teaching Genres as Performances rather than Objects"

184

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 184

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Theory

F.39 	 Using Blogs and Online Tools for Identity Construction
and Activism
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University Purdue University Fort
Wayne
Speakers: Ilka Luyt, Queen’s University, Battersea, Ontario, Canada,
"Shall We Dance? Exploring Gender and Problem-Based Learning in
Asynchronous Online First-year Composition Courses"
Rachel Carrales, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "From Birth Plans to
‘Mommy’ Blogs: How and Why 21st Century Mothers Write"
Kaia Simon, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Constellating a
Blogging Identity: Using Genre as Rhetorical Resource"

F.40 Opening Closed Narratives, Disrupting Settler Spaces, and
Challenging Entrenched Privilege: Settler Colonialism and
the Rhetorics of Cultural Access
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, Seattle, WA
Speakers: Crystal Boston, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "‘The Magic Is
in the Hole’: Predatourism, Hoodoo, and Voodoo Donuts"
Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, Seattle, WA, "Even My Nutz Are
Red, White, and Blue: Rural Drag and the Settler Rhetorics of White
Heteropatriarchy"
Gail MacKay, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada, "Seeking
Peace of Mind with Grandfather Buffalo and the Virgin Mary"
Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "Reclaiming These Hills:
Cultural Rhetorics, Appalachian Settler Tourism, and Indigenous SelfRepresentation"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 185

185

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

G Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
Featured Speaker

Derrick Cogburn
Disability and Development as a Global "Grand
Challenge": Collaborative Research Opportunities
Around the UN Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) and the
Post-2015 Development Agenda
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
On 23 September the United Nations General Assembly organized a special High-Level Meeting on
Disability and Development to explore the integration of disability issues into the post-2015 development agenda as the era of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) comes to an close. This
meeting recognized that, according to the World
Bank and World Health Organization, more than
a billion people in the world now live with some
form of disability (WHO, 2011). Many people believe this number is conservative, and does not take
Derrick Cogburn
into consideration the increasing number of aging
persons that are also experiencing the world with similar needs as persons with
disabilities. In this talk, Dr. Cogburn proposes a framework for addressing these
issues as a "grand challenge" for the global community; one that integrates governments, international and regional organizations, universities, civil society
organizations and the private sector. It is set within the context of the global
policy framework engendered by the United Nations Convention on the Rights
of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), with examples from regional policy and
implementation frameworks like the UN Economic and Social Commission
(ESCAP) strategy to "Make the Right Real" for Persons with Disabilities in the
Asia-Pacific Region, known as the Incheon Strategy. Dr. Cogburn will present
a case study of one regional (and global response) to this grand challenge led
by the Institute on Disability and Public Policy (IDPP) at American University. The IDPP, born as an initiative of The Nippon Foundation, is the world’s
first virtual graduate institute focused on disability and development. It takes
a cyberlearning approach to build human capacity for persons with disabilities
around the world, focused on persons that are deaf and hard of hearing, blind
or visually impaired, and/or mobility impaired in the ASEAN region. It has a
virtual masters program, and ongoing capacity development initiative, an out-

186

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 186

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

reach program, and a collaborative research program. This talk will explain: (1)
the background to the IDPP and the information and communication technologies that enable it to create a global accessible cyberlearning environment; (2)
the integration of disability issues into the post-2015 development agenda; (3)
the comprehensive global, regional, and national policy frameworks driving this
new rights-based global environment for persons with disabilities; and will end
with (4) a collaborative research agenda to address the "grand challenge" of disability and development.


CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 187

187

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Academic Writing

G.01	 Cross-Cultural Perspectives on Academic Literacies
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Speakers: Roxanna Correa, Universidad Católica de la Santísima Concepción, Santa Barbara, CA, "Teacher’s Comments: Form and Function
from Textual Analysis and Rhetorical Context: A Chilean Cast at University Level"
Irem Islim, Bahçeşehir University, Istanbul, "Integrating Web-Quest Tool
with EFL Academic Writing Classes to Promote Critical Thinking Skills"
Lina Trigos-Carrillo, University of Missouri-Columbia, "Academic Literacy Practices, Academic Culture and Agency of Latino/a Graduate
Students"
Academic Writing

G.02	 Rhetoric of Science: Exploring Arguments and Pedagogy
within the Field
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: Jonathan White, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "Preparing for Professional Practice: Reflective Writing Pedagogy, Affect,
and Medical Students’ Experiences in Surgery"
Susan Chaudoir, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "Preparing for
Professional Practice: Reflective Writing Pedagogy, Affect, and Medical
Students’ Experiences in Surgery"
Heather Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "Teaching
Graduate Students to Write: Exploring the Microstructure of Argument
in Science-Based Disciplines"
Josh Beach, University of Texas, San Antonio, "21st Century Literacy and
the Rhetoric of Science: Constructing and Debating Knowledge in Multicultural Societies"
Basic Writing

G.03	 Histories, Policy, and Power: Complicating Notions of
Progress in Basic Writing
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Speakers: Pegah Motaleb, San Diego Mesa College, CA, "Coming Up to
Acceleration: History, Process, and Progress at Our Community College"
Wendy Smith, San Diego Mesa College, "Coming Up to Acceleration: History, Process, and Progress at Our Community College"
Renee Moreno, California State University, Long Beach, "Power and Policy: A History of Basic Writing in the CSU"

188

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 188

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

G.04	 Can’t We All Just Get Along? The Rhetoric of Ecumenism,
Inclusionism, and Dissensus
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA
Speakers: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI
Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Thomas Amorose, Seattle Pacific University, WA
Community, Civic & Public

G.05	 Networking Both Ways: What Prison Can Teach Us about
Literacy
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor

Co-Chairs: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Speakers: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, NY, "Beyond Statistics: Rhetorical Listening and Composition from Prison"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, "Corresponding
Pedagogies"
Kathie Klarreich, ArtSpring, Florida City, FL, "Corresponding Pedagogies"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY,
"Writing from the Inside: Creativity, Constraints, and Prison Publication"
Respondents: Kathie Klarreich, ArtSpring, Florida City, FL
Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY
Creative Writing

G.06	 Accessing Little Narratives of Creative Writing
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Nancy Reddy, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Nancy Reddy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "‘Reading as
a Writer’: Reading Practices in Creative Writing and Access to Texts"
Brittany Cavallaro, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Beg, Borrow,
Steal: Practicing Imitation in the Creative Writing Classroom"
Mary Fiorenza, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "How and Why To Be
a (Creative) Writer and a Writing (Comp) Teacher, according to Wendy
Bishop"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 189

189

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

History

G.07	 Historical Activism: Replaying the Records of Women’s
Social Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Jill Lamberton, Wabash College, Crawfordsville, IN
Speakers: Sarah R. Robbins, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth
Jill Lamberton, Wabash College, Crawfordsville, IN
Lisa Shaver, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Information Technologies

G.08	 Digital Feminism: Activism, Trolling, and First-Year
Writing
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Connie Kendall Theado, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Annika Vorhes, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Feminist
Spaces: Movement in the First-Year Writing, Digital Classroom"
Melissa Larabee, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "How Trolling Works: Constructing Boundaries in an Online Feminist Community"
Danielle Williams, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Strategically Contemplating #FemFuture and Digital Activism"
Information Technologies

G.09	 Going Public with E-portfolios: Opening Up
Communication and Composition in a Digital
Environment that Speaks to the Net Generation
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Amy Norkus, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI
Speakers: Julie White, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, "Efficiencies in Blending Composition and Communication through the Draft
Papers Feature of the DPMS"
Amy Norkus, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, "The Virtual
Grading Room: How Open Grading through the DPMS Connects Faculty"
Dauvan Mulally, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, "Speaking
the Same Language: Using the DPMS to Connect Digital Immigrants
and Digital Natives in the First-Year Writing Classroom"

190

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 190

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Information Technologies

G.10	 Open Access? Composing Technologies for Disability
Accessibility

JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
Speakers: George H. Williams, University South Carolina Upstate, Spartanburg, "Acts and Access, Copyright and Disability Rights"
Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, "Disability, Access,
and Scholarship"
Melissa Helquist, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Open Access Textbooks: Exploiting Audio Potentialities"
Information Technologies

G.11	 Time and the Digital Work of Online Writing
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Michael Edwards, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Michael Edwards, Washington State University, Pullman, "Recovering the Value of Process through Temporality"
Kerry Clark, Washington State University, Pullman, "The Value of Time in
‘Open’ and ‘Closed’ Learning Spaces"
John Walter, Saint Louis University, MO, "Composing in the Medium of
Time"
Institutional and Professional

G.12	 Building Partnerships: Articulating Community College to
University Transfer
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Tracy Ann Morse, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC,
"Keeping Lines of Communication Open: Biennial Articulation Conference"
Kim Gunter, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC, "Collaboration for
Successful Transfer"
Loreen M. Smith, Isothermal Community College, Spindale, NC, "Restructuring Freshman Composition: The Impact Transfer Articulation Expectations Has Had on the Curriculum Revisions at Isothermal Community
College"
Jason DePolo, North Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro, "The
Piedmont Composition Alliance: Opening Dialogue toward a (Re-) Articulation of FYC Expectations and Curricula among Universities and
Community Colleges"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 191

191

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

G.13	 Social Entrepreneurism and Sustainability: Writing
Centers as Change-Agents within and outside the
Academy
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Joan Mullin, Illinois State University, Bloomington
Speakers: Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia College, New York, NY, "TED Talks
and Superhero Supply Stores: Community Writing Centers’ Lessons in
Social Entrepreneurship"
Bradley Hughes, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Revealing Writing
Centers as Change Agents within the Academy"
Joan Mullin, Illinois State University, Bloomington
Institutional and Professional

G.14	 WPA-Outcomes Statement Revision for a Multimodal,
Digitally Composed World - PART II
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington
Speakers: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, City University of New
York, Long Island City, NY
Beth Brunk-Chavez, University of Texas at El Paso
Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Darsie Bowden, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Language

G.16	 Language Inclusion and Support in Transnational
Contexts
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Stefan Frazier, San Jose State University, CA
Speakers: Jason Buchanan, Univerisdad San Ignacio de Loyola, Cedar
Rapids, IA, "Exporting English: Culture, Globalization, and Composition in South America"
Hanyang Fu, Grand Valley State University, Grand Rapids, MI, "Attitudes
toward China English: Comparing the Views of College English Users
in China and the U.S."
Yue Chen, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Attitudes toward China
English: Comparing the Views of College English Users in China and
the U.S."
Jennifer Haan, University of Dayton, OH, "The Productive Space of Internationalization: Collaboration, Curriculum Development, and a Writing
Pedagogy of Inclusion"

192

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 192

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Stefan Frazier, San Jose State University, CA, "First-Year Composition
Teachers Who Speak English as Their Second Lanauge: A Survey"
Language

G.17	 Translingualism in Theory and Practice: Successes and
Challenges
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Esther Milu, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Esther Milu, Michigan State University, East Lansing
April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Bonnie Williams, California State University, Fullerton
Respondent: Suresh Canagarajah, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Research

G.18	 Broadening Access: Reviewer Response, Gender
Revision, and Drop-In Writing Centers
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Speakers: Talisha Haltiwanger, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
"Purposeful Tactics: Writing Workshops in Youth Drop-In Centers"
Elizabeth Geib, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "’Wait, You’re Not a
Grad Student?’ Age and Gender in Writing Center Consulting"
Sam Van Horne, University of Iowa, Ames, "Broadening Access: The Writing Center Conferences and Revision Processes of a Student with a Disability"
Research

G.19	 How Do Dual Credit Students Do on College Writing
Tasks after They Matriculate at a University? Empirical
Data from a Large-Scale Study
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Delys Snyder, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT
Speakers: Brett McInelly, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, "What
Do Dual Credit Students Say about their High School Writing Experience?"
Brian Jackson, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, "How do Dual Credit Students Do on Subsequent College Writing Tasks? Research Methods
and Results of an Empirical Study"
Kristine Hansen, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, "The Emergence
of Dual Credit as the Preferred Option for Taking First-Year Writing before College"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 193

193

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

G.20	 Technofeminist Writing Research: Online Feminist
Community-Building Design, Feminist Grounded Theory,
and a Critical Examination of Hegemonic Film Discourse
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Paula Patch, Elon University, NC
Speakers: Kerri Hauman, Transylvania University, Lexington, KY, "A Vision of/for Technofeminist Writing Research: Online Feminist Community-Building, Designs, and Histories"
Amanda Athon, Bowling Green State University, OH, "When Your Collaborator Is Your Participant: Feminist Grounded Theory as a Means to
Foster Open Access Research"
Kristie O’Donnell, Texas State University-San Marcos, "The Lion, the
Witch, and the Women: A Critical Examination of Film, Discourse, and
Changing Hegemonies in Popular Christianity"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.21	 Agency and Identity in Assignments from BW to the
Disciplines
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Chair: Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University, CA
Speakers: Barbara Bird, Taylor University, Upland, IN, "Role of Assignments in Seeding Identities: Comparing Basic and Freshman Writers"
Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University, CA, "Seeding Identities: Assignments from 2YC (Second-Year Composition)"
Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, CA, "Identity and Assignments in the Disciplines"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.22	 Creative Writing/Creative Teching: Digital Storytelling,
Guerilla Haiku, Poetic Expression
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Speakers: Kristen Weinzapfel, North Central Texas College, Gainesville,
"Letting the Chips Fall Where They May: Teaching the Legacy of John
F. Kennedy’s ‘The Purpose of Poetry’"
Jared Sexton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Stitching Together: Crafting a Digital Storytelling Course from Creative and Technical
Threads"
Les Loncharich, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "Stitching Together: Crafting a Digital Storytelling Course from Creative and Technical Threads"

194

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 194

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Kathryn Douglas, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Madison, NJ, "Poetry
Recitation and Chalk Haiku: Redesigning and Reinvigorating Comp
Process with Performance and Creative Writing Pedagogy"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.23	 Intercultural Perspectives on Composition in the
Globalized Campus
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Tatjana Schell, North Dakota State University, Fargo
Speakers: Juan Li, University of St. Thomas, Saint Paul, MN, "Learning to
Write in the Second Language via Critical Thinking: Connecting Writing
Assignments to ESL Students’ Multicultural Experiences"
Matthew Warner, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "English is Difficult, and Polymers Are Even More Difficult: Writing Center Consultants
as Literacy Brokers for Non-Native English STEM Scholars Seeking
Publication"
Massimo Verzella, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "Rediscovering
Language through Trans-Atlantic Collaboration: The Translingual Approach from Theory to Classroom Practice"
Tatjana Schell, North Dakota State University, Fargo, "In the Classroom:
Non-Native Speaking Instructors Teaching Composition to American
Students"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.24	 Open Access and Neurodiversity for 21st Century
Classrooms
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Katherine H. Adams, Loyola University, New Orleans, LA
Speakers: Peter Elliott, Anderson University, IN, "Developing Writing
Strategies for Students With Learning Disabilities"
Laura Aspinall, Santa Rosa Junior College, CA, "Neurodiversity in the
Composition Classroom"
Angela Romagnoli, Santa Rosa Junior College, CA, "Neurodiversity in the
Composition Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 195

195

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.25	 Perspectives and Assignments from Open Classrooms:
Podcasting, Multimodality in Activist Rhetoric, Poster
Galleries
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Speakers: Petger Schaberg, University of Colorado, Boulder, "The Gallery
is Open: Composing Student Poster and Propaganda Exhibitions for College Libraries"
Thomas Reynolds, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, "Open Access
and Multimodality: Recovering the Past for Meaningful Participation in
the First Year of College Writing"
Patrick Bruch, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, "Open Access and
Multimodality: Recovering the Past for Meaningful Participation in the
First Year of College Writing"
Annie Olson, LeTourneau University, Longview, TX, "Embracing Multimodality: Composing through Podcasting"
Barbara Gordon, Elon University, NC, "Multimodal vs. Plain-Text: An Investigation of Student Preference and Process"
Sara Alpert, Elon University, NC, "Multimodal vs. Plain-Text: An Investigation of Student Preference and Process"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.26	 Tackling Teacher Racism in the Composition Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Todd DeStigter, University of Illinois, Chicago
Speakers: Ingrid Nordstrom, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Megan Sampson, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stephanie Nook, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.27	 Writing Contested Spaces: Detroit, Occupy Wall Street,
and Locally Grown Foods in Hawai’i
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Speakers: Susan Waldman, Leeward Community College, Pearl City, HI,
"Meeting Students Where They Are: Using Local Issues to Focus Writing and Research for a First-Year Composition Course"
Jill McKay Chrobak, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Writing Detroit:
Contested Space, Contested Knowledge"
Rachel Cantrell, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Occupy Literacy:
Utilizing Occupy Wall Street in the FYC to Illustrate Media Literacy
Practices"

196

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 196

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Theory

G.29	 Queer | Community: Intersectionality, Inclusion, and
Alliance in Queer Rhetorics and Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Second Floor

Chair: Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, College Station
Speakers: Franny Howes, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Oh Shit, I’m in Grad
School Presents: Stop Including Yourself, Stop Including Yourself"
Shannon Wilson, Texas A&M University, College Station, "Fostering Inclusion, Building Community: Servicing the Needs of LGBTQIA Community College Students"
Rebecca Harris, Edison State College-Charlotte Campus, Punta Gorda, FL,
"Fostering Inclusion, Building Community: Servicing the Needs of LGBTQIA Community College Students"
Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY, "Putting the QQ (Queer & Questioning) in LGBT: Tracing the Evolution of
CCCC SIG"
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Unsettling Queer
Rhetorics: Indigenous Challenges to the Field"
Jon Wargo, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Between a Rock and
a Safe Space: (Q)ulturally Responsive Pedagogy and Queer Community
Building"
Respondents: Eric Pritchard, University of Texas at Austin
Theory

G.30	 The Other Kind of Access: Opening Genres through
Disability Theory
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
"Genres, Access, and Disability in Neuroscience Texts"
Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, Ypsilanti, "Writing with Suspect
Equipment: On Autism and Genre"
Katie Rose Guest Pryal, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "Bipolar Rhetorics: Using Genre Theory to Reconcile Rhetoric from and
Rhetoric about Psychiatric Disability"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 197

197

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

G.31	 Colorizing the Writing Center: One Writing Center’s
Journey to Interrogate "Diversity" and Discourse
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair: Princess Ikatekit, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Speakers: Pedro Alfonso, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Nancy Alvarez, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Princess Ikatekit, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Writing Programs

G.32	 Open Access Curriculum: (Re)Designing a CompetencyBased Writing Program
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin Marathon County, Wausau
Speakers: Kristen Seas, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha, "Designing a
Writing Curriculum around Rhetorical Competence"
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, Wausau, "Using Research on Student Learning as a Framework for Curricular Redesign"
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin Marathon County, Wausau, "Situation Competency-Based Composition within National Imperatives"
Writing Programs

G.33	 The Stories We Tell: Narratives, Institutional Discourse,
and the Public Documents of Writing Centers
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Tammy Conard-Salvo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Tammy Conard-Salvo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Tristan Abbott, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Stacy Nall, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

198

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 198

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Writing Programs

G.34	 Opening Curriculum, Creating Openings: Transforming a
Writing Program after a CWPA Program Evaluation
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Second Floor

Chair: Magdelyn Helwig, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Speakers: Mahrya Carncross, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Integrating Research, Technology, and Information Literacies into the Writing Program"
Nicole Hagstrom-Schmidt, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Negotiating Graduate Student Identities in the Encompassing Transition of
Curricular Change"
William Knox, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Moving to Meaningful Writing Assessment"
Barbara Ashwood, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Surveying Writing Instruction through Dynamic Criteria Mapping"
Magdelyn Helwig, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Preparing for the
CWPA Consultant-Evaluator Visit"
William Thomspon, Western Illinois University, Macomb, "Professional
Development In Times of Worsening Institutional Financial Distress or
What To Do after Hitting the Iceberg"
Theory

G.35	 The Living Nature of Genres
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Heather Bastian, The College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, MN
Jennifer LeMesurier, University of Washington, Seattle
Dylan Medina, University of Washington, Seattle
Respondent: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 199

199

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

G.37	 Opening the Nature of Research: Reordering and
Reimagining Access in Archival Research
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Lara Smith-Sitton, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, "Environments and Open/Spaces: The Influence of Location in Archival Research"
Marta Hess, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Challenges and Opportunities: Accessibility and Discovery in Public Archives"
Lynee Gaillet, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Changing the Conversation: Archives as Sites for Meaning-Making"
Lara Smith-Sitton, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, "Open Access,
Open Sources: Reshaping and Remixing Research Materials"
Information Technologies

G.38	 Flipped or Flipped Out? Understanding the DecisionMaking behind Pedagogical Integration of Technology
and New Media
JW Marriott, Grand BallroomVI, Third Floor

Chair: Barbara Blakely, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Lynn McCool, Iowa State University, Ames, "The Potential of
the Flipped Classroom"
Barbara Blakely, Iowa State University, Ames, "Technology Integration by
Late-Career Faculty"
Casey White, Iowa State University, Ames, "New Media and Faculty at
Four-Year Colleges"

200

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 200

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

G.39	 Ruptures and Closures: Evaluating Correctness,
Deviation, and Exaggeration in First-Year Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor

Chair: Zachary Beare, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Trevor Meyer, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Through
the City Gates: Classical Paradigms and Modern Problems in Error"
Marcus Meade, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "The Most Important
Project of Our Time: A Nuanced Examination of Hyperbole in First-Year
Writing"
Zachary Beare, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "The Most Important Project of Our Time: A Nuanced Examination of Hyperbole in First-Year
Writing"
Stephanie Boone-Mosher, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "‘Stuck
in the Life of a Thug’s Mentality’: Composition Instructors’ Resistance
to Code-Meshing in Student Texts"
Academic Writing

G.40	 Meeting the Needs of L1 and L2 Graduate Student and
Post-Doc Writers: From Needs Assessment to Program
Development
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Chair: Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro
Speakers: Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro, "A Graduate-Level
STEM Communication Fellows Program for L1 and L2 Students at a
Science and Engineering University"
Marino Fernandes, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Reimagining
Access: How SLA Scholarship Lightens the Ethical Load in the Writing
Center"
Michelle Cox, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, "Conducting a Language
and Literacy Needs Assessment of International Graduate Students and
Post-Docs: One Approach and Preliminary Results"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 201

201

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

H Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Featured Speaker

Robert H. McRuer
George Washington University, Washington, DC
"A Queer Kind of Recognition:
Academia, Locality, and the State"
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Chair: Margaret Price, Spelman College, Decatur, GA
During Fall 2013, CCCC members discussed the
question of what it means to hold our convention
in Indianapolis, Indiana, where a state amendment
banning gay marriage is on the table, and where the
state’s criminal code is written in a way that may
prevent same-sex couples from even applying for
marriage licenses. The significance of this discussion goes beyond the specific situation of Indiana or
2014; it points to important questions for the future
of CCCC. What is the best course of action when
Robert H. McRuer
a scholarly organization attempts to respond to oppressive city or state laws? What are the implications of assuming that "gay marriage" is of principal importance in LGBTQ
activism? What happens when we combine "queer" with "institutions" (both
of higher learning, and of marriage), and with the state? Ultimately, how might
we imagine a more open future for LGBTQ politics in CCCC, and perhaps
beyond?
This session will begin with a talk by Dr. Robert McRuer, which will investigate the question of "the state" on several levels, including questions about both
individual US states where CCCC might or might not convene in the futures we
are imagining, and also about the larger US state, in its contradictory moment
of both "recognizing" certain forms of queerness (through shifting public opinion and laws around marriage) and intensely surveilling others. In the process,
McRuer attempts to locate us in a moment of both danger and reinvention—of
our priorities, coalitions, and institutions.
Following Dr. McRuer’s talk, attendees will engage in an extended discussion of these issues, moderated by Dr. Margaret Price. Topics may include the

202

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 202

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

intersectional politics of CCCC location selection, including issues of race, class
and disability, as well as sexuality and gender; the recently passed guiding principles on "CCCC Conference Siting and Hostile Legislation"; and questions
brought to the floor by members.
Robert McRuer is the author or editor of three books: Sex and Disability
(Duke UP, 2012; co-edited with Anna Mollow); Crip Theory: Cultural Signs of
Queerness and Disability (New York UP, 2006); and The Queer Renaissance:
Contemporary American Literature and the Reinvention of Lesbian and Gay
Identities (New York UP, 1997). Crip Theory was awarded the Alan Bray Memorial Book Award (2007) from the GL/Q Caucus of the Modern Language
Association, and was a finalist for a Lambda Literary Award. With Abby L. Wilkerson in 2003, he co-edited a special double issue of GLQ: A Journal of Lesbian
and Gay Studies, "Desiring Disability: Queer Theory Meets Disability Studies,"
which was awarded the Best Special Issue Award (2004) from the Council of
Editors of Learned Journals (CELJ). He is now completing a monograph tentatively titled Cripping Austerity.
Margaret Price is the author of Mad at School: Rhetorics of Mental Disability and Academic Life (University of Michigan P, 2011), which won the CCCC
Outstanding Book Award. She is a member of the LBGTQ Task Force and
Committee on Disability Issues in CCCC. Her work, further detailed at http://
margaretprice.wordpress.com, has appeared in venues including JAC, CCC,
Kairos and Bitch: Feminist Response to Pop Culture. With Stephanie Kerschbaum, she is now at work on a qualitative study of disability and disclosure in
higher education.

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 203

203

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Featured Session

H.07 Sailing Forth into the Four C’s:
When CCCC Leaders Were Newcomers
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom X, Third Floor
Chair:
Cindy Selfe,
The Ohio State University, Columbus

Speakers:
Erika Lindemann
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "When the Field Was Young . . . and
I Was Too"
Akua Duku Anokye
Arizona State University, Tempe, "Talking Brought Me Here"
Duane Roen, Arizona State University, Tempe, "The CCCC Convention: An Annual Mentoring Event"
Respondents:
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman
Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst

204

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 204

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Featured Session

H.14 Surviving and Thriving while Working off the
Tenure-Track: Gender, Contingent Labor, and
Writing Instruction in the 21st Century
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Second Floor
Chair:
Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, NY

Speakers:
Paula Patch
Elon University, NC, "Who Are You Calling Contingent? Making the Case—and
a Place—for Permanent Non-Tenure Track Faculty in Today’s English Department"
Laura Powell
University of Nevada, Las Vegas, "From Perishing to Publishing: Overcoming
Barriers to Women Contingent Faculty’s Success"
Valerie Robin
Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Working without a Net: The Traumas of Contingent Labor"
Sherri Craig
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Tomorrow’s Troubled Transformations:
The Graduate Student Transition into Full-Time Faculty"
Paige Talbot
South Seattle Community College, WA, "The Women Will Endure It, and the
Men Will Solve It: The Intersection of Power and Gender during Crises in Higher
Education"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 205

205

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

H.01	 Going to the Source: Rhetorical Approaches to
Research-Based Writing
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: William FitzGerald, Rutgers University, Camden
Speakers: William FitzGerald, Rutgers University, Camden, "Rethinking
the Annotated Bibliography as a Research Genre"
Binyomin Abrams, Boston University, MA, "Real Research/Real Genres:
Integrating Research-Based Writing into an Introductory Analytical
Chemistry Sequence for Majors"
Joe Bizup, Boston University, MA, "BEAM Revisited: Mapping Disciplines, Genres, Practices"
Academic Writing

H.02	 STEM and Spectrum Issues in WAC Initiatives
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: J. Michael Rifenburg, University of North Georgia, Gainesville
Speakers: Cary Moskovitz, Duke University, Durham, NC, "Experts as
Readers for STEM Student Writers: Findings from a 3-Year NSF-Sponsored Study"
Pamela Saunders, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Composition in a Coded World: A Case Study of Hybrid Writing by a Computer
Science Student on the Spectrum"
Steffen Guenzel, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Moving towards
Collaborative Learning in the Chemistry Writing Lab with Help of Disciplinary Writing Consultants"
Basic Writing

H.03	 Piloting the Brave New World of Developmental Writing:
Co-Requisite Enrollment at a Regional State University
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Ellen Barker, Nicholls State University, Thibodaux, LA
Speakers: Ellen Barker, Nicholls State University, Thibodaux, LA, "The
Department Chair and Emerging Co-Requisite Developmental Writing
Programs"
Scott Banville, Nicholls State University, Thibodaux, LA, "Another Day,
Another Meeting: Integrating Developmental Writing into an Existing
FYW Program"
Louie Charpentier, Nicholls State University, Thibodaux, LA, "But I’m Just
an Adjunct: Teaching Co-Requisite Developmental Writing—Developing Programs, Writers, and Teachers"

206

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 206

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

H.04	 Caught Open by Service-Learning: Voicing Difficult
Stories from the Field
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Second Floor

Chair: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "Service-Learning:
To Tenure or Not To Tenure"
Juan Arturo Muro, AVANCE, El Paso, TX, "Service-Learning: A Risky
Business"
Bradford Hincher, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "In Whose Service,
Learning?"
Laura Anderson, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Making Academia Uncomfortable: Service-Learning, Sex Work, and Telling Difficult Stories"
Daliborka Crnkovic, University of Texas at El Paso, "Opening Up in Service-Learning: It’s Not Business, It’s Personal"
Community, Civic & Public

H.05	 New Media and New Agency: Redesigning CommunityBased Writing
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Chair: Thomas Deans, University of Connecticut, Storrs
Speakers: Cindy Mooty, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Writing as
the Community: The Curriculum as a Tool for Prompting Proactive Student Activists"
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Multimodal Goes
Global: Assessing a Service-Learning Project"
Stephanie White, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Community Exigencies, Multimodal Pedagogies"
Allen Brizee, Loyola University, Baltimore, MD, "Agency and Civic Action: WordPress as a Tool for Community Knowledge Work"
Creative Writing

H.06	 I Got Cha Open: Integrating the Arts into Composition
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Tara Betts, Binghamton University (State University of New York),
NY
Speakers: Curtis Crisler, Indiana University (IPFW), Fort Wayne
Ciara Miller, Indiana University Bloomington
Mitchell Douglas, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis
Tara Betts, Binghamton University (State University of New York), NY

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 207

207

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.09	 Hacking as Practice, Culture, and Epistemology:
Fostering Creative Inquiry and Advocacy in
Composition Studies
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Joseph Cirio, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Heather Lang, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Hack as
Epistemology: Encoding the Work of Composition as a Creative Enterprise"
Jacob Craig, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Are Anonymous: Engaging Hacktivism in Composition"
Bret Zawilski, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Hacking Materiality:
Open-Source Software and Breaking Limitations"
Information Technologies

H.10	 Open(ing) Technological Access in Digital, Professional,
and Scholarly Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer K. Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Lehua Ledbetter, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
"Seeking Access to YouTube’s Beauty Community"
Amber Buck, College of Staten Island, City University of New York, NY,
"Linking In: Access and Professional Digital Identity"
Doug Walls, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Access(ing), Digital
Literacy Narratives, and Professionalization"
Information Technologies

H.11	 Shifting the Conversation: Conceptions of Identity in
Digital Writing Environments
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Alanna Frost, University of Alabama, Huntsville
Speakers: Suzanne Malley, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, "Making Big
Room for Small Talk: Tracing Social Connections and the Knowledge
Practices of Academic Writing in a Global, Online Writing Classroom"
Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, "Welcome to My
Home/Page: Hospitality in Face-to-face and Digital Classrooms"
Kristin Ravel, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "What Face Are We
Responding To?: Perceptions of Interface and Identities in Online"

208

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 208

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.12	 Where We’re Going We Don’t Need Roads: Rethinking
"Stretch" FYC Pedagogy in a Hybrid World
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
Chair: James Wermers, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Speakers: Mark Haunschild, Arizona State University, Phoenix
James Wermers, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Shillana Sanchez, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Institutional and Professional

H.13	 Encouraging Student Engagement in Labor Activism
though FYC Curricula: A Program-Wide Experiment
During Campus Equity Week
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Speakers: Maria Maisto, Cuyahoga Community College, Akron, OH
Vani Kannan, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Adam Mackie, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Emily Morgan, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Nancy Henke, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Denver
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.15	 Archives, Provenance, and Multi-Modal Composing:
Refiguring Research in Writing Courses with Special
Collections, and Archivists, and Digital Archives
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Chair: John Miles, Wofford College, Spartanburg, SC
Speakers: Luke Meagher, Wofford College, Spartanburg, SC, "Provenance
and Empiricism: Exploring the Archival Universe in Liberal Arts Partnerships"
John Miles, Wofford College, Spartanburg, SC
Kim Rostan, Wofford College, Spartanburg, SC

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 209

209

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

H.16	 Places of Arrival: Literacy Acquisition In and Out of
School
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Speakers: Molly Brayman, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Students as
Fans: A Model of Public and Academic Identities in Concert"
Laura Rutland, Gannon University, Erie, PA, "Collaboration and the Shaping of Information Literacy in the Composition Classroom"
Brice Nordquist, Midway College, Louisville, KY, "Following the Creators
of College and Career: Three Stories of Mobility and Complexity"
Heather Lindenman, University of Maryland, College Park "Beyond the
Academy: Students’ Non-Academic Writing Lives"
Language

H.17	 Open Access and a New Visibility for Linguistically
Underrepresented Students’ Right/Write to Their Own
Languages
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Bonnie Williams, California State University Fullerton
Speakers: Samuel Kamara, Illinois State University, Normal, "World Englishes and Bilingual Creativity: Practices of Sierra Leonean Writers, and
Their Implications for Pedagogy and Literacy"
Jennifer Fisch-Ferguson, Graduate Student, Fenton, MI, "Students’ Right to
Their Own Language Revisited: Calling for Redefinition of Voice"
Chinyere Uzogara, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Reimagining SRTOL: Generation 1.5 Students’ Right to House Their Own Languages"
Lami Fofana-Kamara, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, "A
De/Colonial Second Language Pedagogy: Responding to the New Basic
Writers/Writing Exigency"
Professional and Technical Writing

H.18	 Citizens and Scientists, Environment and Ethics
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Maureen Mathison, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Maureen Mathison, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "The
Undoing of the Scientist Rhetorician: Environment over Development"
Jean Goodwin, Iowa State University, Ames, "Science Communication
Ethics: The Case of the Iowa Climate Letter"
Caroline Gottschalk Druschke, University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "Accountability to Public Stakeholders in Watershed-Based Restoration"

210

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 210

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Research

H.19	 Collecting, Analyzing, and Talking about Data
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara, "Building a Research Tradition"
Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "What To Do with What
You’ve Got: Representing Research"
Jo Mackiewicz, Auburn University, AL, "Stats a Good Idea: A Brief Introduction to Useful Statistics for Mixed-Methods Research"
Jason Swarts, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "The Order in
Method: How the Messy World of Writers Becomes Tidy"
Research

H.20	 On Methodological Discovery: Opening Research Design
to the Instability of Research Sites
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Speakers: Kristen Moore, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Libby Miles, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Michele Simmons, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Patricia Sullivan, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Research

H.21	 The Writing Transfer Project: A Cross-Institutional RAD
Study of Transfer from General Education Writing to
Disciplinary Writing
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor
Chair: Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Royal Oak, MI
Speakers: Gwen Gorzelsky, Wayne State University, Royal Oak, MI
Ed Jones, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ
Carol Hayes, George Washington University, Washington DC
Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.22	 An Image Is Worth a Thousand Words: Open Access
Technology and Reimagined Histories
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor
Speakers: Carolyn Handa, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Matthew Wells, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Stephanie Parker, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Amanda Stevens, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 211

211

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.23	 Digital Writing Classrooms: Wikis as Genre, New
Identities, and Anxieties
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Tomlinson, West Virginia University, Morgantown
Speakers: Brittany Cottrill, Grand View University, Des Moines, IA, "A
Cyber (Anxiety) Attack: Writing Anxiety in the Digital Writing Classroom"
Brandy Dieterle, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Digital Communities as Authentic Writing Situations in First-Year Composition"
Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, "Rhetorical
Shifts in Advanced Composition: Using Wikis to Promote Genre Knowledge"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.24	 Is Open the Same as ‘Access’? Teaching Writing in the
Two-Year College
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Keith Kroll, Kalamazoo Valley Community College, MI
Speakers: Lisa Mahle-Grisez, Sinclair Community College, Beavercreek,
OH
Barry Alford, Mid Michigan Community College, Mt. Pleasant
Keith Kroll, Kalamazoo Valley Community College, MI
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.25	 Opening FYC to Student Empirical Research: Motivation,
Implementation, and Efficacy
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Imafuji, Anderson University, IN
Speakers: Nicki Baker, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "After the Autoethnographic Empirical Research: Longitudinal Course Efficacy"
Ann Burke, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "‘Project Experiment’:
Inquiry-Driven Learning in First-Year Composition"
Elizabeth Imafuji, Anderson University, IN, "‘I should be able to dive in’:
The Importance of FYC Students’ Own Research Interests"

212

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 212

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.26	 "Possibility, Transparency, and Equality": Negotiating
Economies of Technology in the Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Vancouver
Speakers: Wendy Olson, Washington State University, Vancouver
Sky wilson, Washington State University, Vancouver
Siskanna Naynaha, Lane Community College, Eugene, OR
Justin Obara, Washington State University, Pullman
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.27	 Teaching That Matters: New Materialism Meets
Composition Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Chair: Cynthia Bateman, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Christine Masters Jach, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
"Material Methods: Data Visualization and Composition"
Cynthia Bateman, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Towards a
Composition Pedagogy That Matters; Or, Making a Case for a Pedagogy
of Diffraction"
John Muckelbauer, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "A New Material Composition"
Theory

H.28	 Being Open to Alternative Sources of Knowledge:
Influencing Civil Discourse through Chicana Feminism,
Affect Theory, and Environmental Justice
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Chair: Kristi McDuffie, Illinois State University, Bloomington
Speakers: Lisa Phillips, Illinois State University, Bloomington, ""Sensory
Wayfinding" and Environmental Justice in Rhetorical Theory Pedagogy"
Melissa Ames, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, "Exploding Rhetorics of 9/11: Using Affect Theory to Interrogate the Historical Construction of Events"
Kristi McDuffie, Illinois State University, Bloomington, "Utilizing
Anzaldúa’s Theory of Nepantla to Address White Subjectivities and Resistance"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 213

213

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

H.29	 Indigenous Rhetorical Survivance: Opening Ontological
Alliances
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor
Chair: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman
David Grant, University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls
Ann Updike, Miami University Ohio, Oxford
Theory

H.30	 Queer Theories: Institutional Connections and Problems
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

Chair: Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Jessica Mason McFadden, Western Illinois University, Macomb,
"Open Access to Desire: Queering Classrooms to Build Connections"
Maggie Werner, Hobart & William Smith Colleges, Geneva, NY, "Queer +
Pedagogy: A Both/And Approach"
Kendall Gerdes, The University of Texas at Austin, "Rhetorical Theory,
High and Low"
Lindsay Russell, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Genre and
Gender: A Case for Trans-Theory in Rhetorical Genre Studies"
Theory

H.31	 Transformative Rhetorics of Literacy and Identity in
Appalachia
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Kathryn Taylor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University Purdue University,
Fort Wayne, "Rhetorical Theories of Appalachian Literacies"
Kathryn Taylor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Everyday Rhetorics of Urban Appalachia"
Megan Adams, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Building Community in Appalachia through Digital Storytelling"
Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Institutional and Activist Rhetorics of Urban Appalachia"

214

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 214

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

H.32	 Composition as Open Environment
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Co-Chairs: Christina Santana, Arizona State University, Tempe
Barbara Schneider, University of Toledo, OH
Speakers: Paul Wise, University of Toledo, OH
Sheri Benton, University of Toledo, OH
Barbara Schneider, University of Toledo, OH
Anthony Edgington, University of Toledo, OH
Deanna Mascle, Morehead State University, KY
Michelle Miley, Montana State University, Bozeman
Mary Gray, University of Houston, TX
Writing Programs

H.33	 Opening Our Eyes: Addressing the Needs of All Students
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

Chair: Heidi A. Stevenson, Northern Michigan University, Marquette
Speakers: Beth Towle, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Writing Centers and
First-Generation College Students"
Jeremy Land, Baylor University, Temple, TX, "Changing our Play: Addressing College Athlete Academic Performance through an Interdisciplinary Approach"
Kathryn Houghton, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Communicating from the Start: Community-Based Learning in the First-Year
Writing Studio"
Kate Fedewa, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Communicating
from the Start: Community-Based Learning in the First-Year Writing
Studio"
Marisa Sandoval, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Opening Relationships
between Stakeholders at a Writing Center for Student-Athletes: My
Role(s) as Negotiator and Tutor"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 215

215

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Writing Programs

H.34	 Undergraduate Writing Majors and the Future of Writing
Studies
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Jacob Babb, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany
Speakers: Ralph Wahlstrom, Buffalo State University, NY
T J Geiger, Lamar University, Syracuse, NY
Rory Lee, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Jacob Babb, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Writing Programs

H.35	 Opening the Mission: Writing Program Design in FaithBased Institutions
JW Marriott, Room 314, Second Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI
Speakers: Debra Frank Dew, Valparaiso University, IN, "Repurposing Our
WPA Work: Women’s Tea as Mission-Appropriate Venue for Change"
Kristine Johnson, Xavier University, Cincinnati, OH, "The Ethics and Pragmatics of Mission-Based Writing Assessment"
Faith Kurtyka, Creighton University, Omaha, NE, "Eloquentia Perfecta on
the Ground: Building a Mission-Driven WAC Program"
Theory

H.36	 Open Data: Animals, Actants, and Nonhuman Writers
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Sidney I. Dobrin, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Aaron Beveridge, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Text as
Data: Hacking Nonhuman Writers"
Jacob T. Riley, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Big Data: From Human
Agents to Posthuman Actants"
Sean Morey, Clemson University, SC, "Fluid Data: Open Loops, Avatars,
Sharks"

216

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 216

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

H.37	 Remixing Scholarship, Remixing the Classroom: Opening
New Spaces for Teaching and Learning through Video
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: Crystal VanKooten, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Ben Gunsberg, Utah State University, Logan, "Remixing the
Sentence"
Steven Engel, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Remixing Scholarship
on Plagiarism"
Crystal VanKooten, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Remixing How
and Why We Write"
Institutional and Professional

H.38	 MA and PhD Program Design: Impact on Graduate
Student Success
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Speakers: John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "A Source
for Inventing the Future of the Master’s Degree in Writing Studies: An
Analysis of Data from the 2012 Program Survey of the Master’s Degree
Consortium of Writing Studies Specialists"
Polina Chemishanova, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "The
Hidden Minority: Portrait of International Students in Rhetoric and
Composition Graduate Programs"
Karen Bishop Morris, Purdue University, Calumet, "Denial Ain’t Just a
River in Egypt: The Ecology of the English Master’s and the Moral Imperative to Intervene"
Institutional and Professional

H.39	 Collaborating with the Sources Next Door to Open a
Future of Authentic Assessment
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Linsey Cuti, Kankakee Community College, IL
Speakers: Becky Nugent, Governors State University, University Park, IL,
"Moving toward the Future and Horizontal Alignment"
Laura White, Governors State University, University Park, IL, "Opening
Our Assumptions about Writing Instruction"
Linsey Cuti, Kankakee Community College, IL, "Accessing the Path to Cooperative Writing Assessment"
Genevieve Boesen, South Metropolitan Higher Education Consortium,
Crete, IL, "Collaborating with the Sources Next Door"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 217

217

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

H.40	 Textbooks Unbound: Open Access Publishing and Digital
Course Materials
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Jocelyn A. Chadwick, Harvard Graduate School of Education, Cambridge, MA
Speakers: Elizabeth Allan, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Is There a
(Print) Text in This Class?: The Materiality of Students’ Reading Practices in the Open-Source, E-Textbook Age"
Tonya Ritola, Georgia Gwinnett College, Marietta, "Is There a (Print) Text
in This Class?: The Materiality of Students’ Reading Practices in the
Open-Source, E-Textbook Age"
Monica Norris, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "’But what do they do
with it?’: Examining Student and Instructor Use of an E-Handbook
through Direct and Indirect Measures"
Susan Lang, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "’But what do they do with
it?’: Examining Student and Instructor Use of an E-Handbook through
Direct and Indirect Measures"
Matthew Balk, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Access Denied? Approaches to Open Access Textbooks in First-Year Composition"
Writing Programs

H.41	 Institutional Remix: Opening the Doors to Freshmen and
Writing Across the GE Curriculum
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Second Floor

Chair: Kerri Morris, Governors State University, Flossmoor, IL
Speakers: Kerri Morris, Governors State University, Flossmoor, IL, "Writing about Writing: Serving the Students, the Curriculum, and the Discipline"
Elaine Maimon, Governors State University, Crete, IL, "WAC and the Model 21st Century University"
Matthew Thiele, Governors State, Park Forest, IL, "Embracing Change and
Seeking Balance in a New Freshman Writing Curriculum"
Rashidah Jaami` Muhammad, Governors State University, Richton Park,
IL, "Transdisciplinary GE: A Model for Open and Involved Scholarship
and Learning"

218

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 218

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
I.01	

Academic Writing

Models and Concepts for Academic Writing: Rethinking
‘Open’ and ‘Free’
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Laura Davies, United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs,
CO
Speakers: Elise Takehana, Fitchburg State University, MA, "Open and Collaborative: Research Writing as Online Curatorship"
Scott Geisel, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Two Strategies for
Student Success: Short, Foundation Assignments, and Enhanced Peer
Review and Self-Assessment"

I.02	

Academic Writing

The Things They Carry: First-Year Composition and the
Quest for Transferability
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge
Speakers: Scott Stevens, University of Redlands, CA, "Change We Can
Believe In: Transfer of Learning from Baristas to Biologists"
Brett Flehinger, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, ""I Do Not Think It
Means What You Think It Means": High Road Transfer and Writing in
Disciplinary Courses"
Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, "Transfer across Platforms: Do Any Lessons Transfer from Feedback on an
Online Essay Assessment?"
Mary Boland, California State University, San Bernardino, "Passport Pedagogies: Why Packing for the Hinterlands is (Still) Hard"

I.03	

Basic Writing

Reframing Reluctance and Resistance
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Jamey Gallagher, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Deirdre McMahon, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Wiley Davi, Bentley University, Waltham, MA
Debonair Oates-Primus, Community College of Philadelphia, PA
Jamey Gallagher, Community College of Baltimore County, MD

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 219

219

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.04	

Community, Civic & Public

Discrimination, Racism, and Segregation in Writing
Practices, Programs, and Assessment
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Chair: Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, State University of New
York, NY
Speakers: Romeo Garcia, Corpus Christi, Texas, "Discrimination and Racism: From a Student Writer and Writing Instructor of Color"
Lindsey Banister, Syracuse University, NY, "Embodied Experiences of
Segregation: A Call for Self-Directed Placement of ‘Remedial’ StudentWriters"

I.05	

Community, Civic & Public

Opening the Academy: Access In/Outside Academic
Discourse
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Jesse Priest, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Daniel Ehrenfeld, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "‘Us
Against Them’: Pitfalls of Open Access for Publics and Counterpublics"
Jesse Priest, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "The Academy and its
Publics: Cultural Capital and the Literacy Crisis"
Christopher Edwards, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Literacy and
Citizenship: Education Reform and the Commodification of Literacy"
Courtney Gustafson, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "The Social
Value of Literacy within Incarcerated Populations: Conflicting Definitions of Literacy and Problems of Framing"

I.06	

Creative Writing

Openings in Approaches to Teaching Writing with
Technology
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: LauraAnne Carroll-Adler, University of Southern California, Granda Hills
Speakers: Leah Schweitzer, High Point University, NC, "Everyone’s a
Critic: Open Access to Assessment in the Creative Writing Classroom"
Adam Koehler, Manhattan College, The Bronx, NY, "The Total Electric
Drama: Creative Writing Studies and the Digital Humanities"
Sarah Harris, Indiana University East, Richmond, "Learning and Light:
Open Communities in Creative Writing"
Kainat Abidi, Montclair State University, NJ, "Political Twittoric: The Rhetorical Use of Twitter by the Obama 2012 Presidential Campaign"

220

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 220

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.07	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Screed Time: How Does CCCC Get Its Sexxy Back?
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Chair: Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College Chicago, IL
Speakers: Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College, CT,
"Screed Time: Have We Ourselves Abandoned Audience When Presenting at CCCC?"
Keri Mathis, University of Louisville, KY, "Liminal Spaces: The Marriage
of Non-Traditional Students’ Academic/Career/Personal Selves in the
Open Access Institution"
Nicole Williams, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Navigating the Spaces in Between: Life as Contingent Faculty"

I.08	

Information Technologies

Evolving Curriculum and Research in Digital Literacy
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Michael W. Schwartz, St. Cloud State University, MN
Speakers: Joseph Torok, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "What’s My
School of Thought? Tracing Intellectual Networks from Dissertation to
Publication in Purdue University’s Present-Tense Journal"
Christian Pulver, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "So Flow the Data:
Digital Metabolism and the Changing Nature of Writing"
Mary Stewart, University of California, Davis, "Digital Literacy across the
Curriculum: A Faculty Survey and Interview Series"
Scott Jones, Indiana University, Kokomo, "You Say You Want an Evolution: Expanding from Writing into a Digital Literacy-Based Curriculum"

I.09	

Information Technologies

Massively Open? MOOCs and the Future of Teaching
Writing at Scale
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Speakers: Adam Heidebrink, Rushmore, MN, "Writing on the Cloud: Designing Composition Pedagogy for the Masses"
Mary Hocks, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "The Success of This
Course Depends on Your Participation: Composition, Technology, and
Finitude in the Age of MOOCs"
Michael Harker, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "The Success of This
Course Depends on Your Participation: Composition, Technology, and
Finitude in the Age of MOOCs"
Scott DeWitt, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Massively Optimistic: Scaling Student Engagement"
Lan Vu, Southern Illinois University Carbondale, "An Exploratory Study in
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) in Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 221

221

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.10	

Information Technologies

Opening the Ivory Gates: How to Work within and around
LMS’s to Bring Life Back to Learning
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: Steve Edgehouse, Stark State College, North Canton, OH
Speakers: Jennifer Cunningham, Kent State University at Stark, "Abe Lincoln and a Dog Walk into an LMS. . . : Using Web 2.0 Technology to
Approximate Social Presence"
Steve Edgehouse, Stark State College, North Canton, OH, "‘Hacking’
Learning Management Systems through Contemplative Pedagogy and
Reflective Practice"
Lauren Garcia-DuPlain, University of Akron, OH, "Wikis, Weebly, and the
Wild Wild Web: Replacing the Teacher-Centered LMS with StudentCentered Digital Learning Technologies"

I.11	

Information Technologies

Talk and Textuality in the Online Classroom: Notes from
an Online Associate’s Degree Composition Program
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Clay Walker, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Speakers: Clay Walker, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, "Affecting
Teacher Authority through Talk and Textuality in Online Classrooms"
Krista Petrosino, Tiffin University, OH, "Merging Talk with Textuality: Online Live Support Centers and Writing Conferences"
Conor Shaw-Draves, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center,
MI, "From Moodle to Helix: Developing Talk and Textuality in A NextGeneration LMS"

I.12	

Information Technologies

Writing Pedagogy and Social Media after a Decade of
Facebook
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair: Susan Crisafulli, Franklin College, IN
Speakers: Ryan Shepherd, Arizona State University, Tempe, "What’s on
Your Mind? Composing Practices on Facebook"
Chris Gerben, Stanford University, San Francisco, CA, "Ten Years After
‘Composition in a New Key’: The Life and Death of the Facebook Writer"
Elisabeth Buck, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Social Media Pedagogy 2.0: Reassessing Boundaries, Reconceptualizing Literacies"
Ryan McMillan, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro, "Connecting Outward: Web 2.0 Technologies as a Portal to Culture and Rhetoric"

222

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 222

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.13	

Institutional and Professional

Graduate Students as Professionals and Teachers:
TA Prep, Professionalization, and the Job Market
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Cynthia Gomez, Hodges University, Naples, FL
Speakers: Caroline Dadas, Montclair State University, NJ, "Accessing the
Profession: The Locations of the Rhetoric and Composition Job Market"
Lee Bauknight, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "A Grand Opening: Public and Private Transcripts in TA Preparation Programs"
Kristin Kay Winet, University of Arizona, Tucson, "From an Editor’s Perspective: ‘Opening Up’ Our Understanding of Graduate Student Professional Development Positions"

I.14	

Institutional and Professional

The Logistical and Emotional Labor of WPA Work:
Personal Experiences
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Speakers: Christy Wenger, Shepherd University, Shepherdstown, WV,
"Open Awareness: Mindfulness and the WPA"
Kelli Prejean, Marshall University, Huntington, WV, "Managing Lives: The
Mental and Emotional Labor of WPA Work"
Whitney Douglas, Boise State University, ID, "Managing Lives: The Mental and Emotional Labor of WPA Work"
Jonathan Cullick, Northern Kentucky University, Newport, "Opening Our
Potential: When the WPA Becomes Chair"
Eberly Mareci, University of California San Diego, "An Anthropological
Study of a Writing Program: Making of the Modern World at UCSD"

I.15	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Beyond Monoculture: Open Source Research in the
University Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Joyce Inman, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Speakers: Jeffrey Kaufmann, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Martina Sciolino, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Randy Gonzales, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Joyce Inman, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 223

223

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.16	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Who Defines Their Rights? Opening and Resisting
Access
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Kyle Stedman, Rockford University, IL
Speakers: Cayo Gamber, George Washington University, Washington,
DC, "Becoming Citizen Historians: Conducting Public Research with
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in a First-Year Writing
Course"
Regina Fabbro, Monroe Community College, Rochester, NY, "Writing
Rights: Global Human Rights Education Initiatives and the Composition
Classroom"
Christopher Hazlett, University of Maryland, College Park, "Prison Sentences: A New (Old) Space for Writing Theory, Research, and Pedagogy"
Alison Witte, Trine University, Liberty Center, OH, "’We just don’t do that
here’: Constructing Identity and Ethos through Resisting Access"

I.18	

Professional and Technical Writing

Ethics and Accountability in Healthcare Communication
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Speakers: Christen Rachul, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada,
"Obesity, Evidence, and Knowledge Translation: A Multimodal, GenreBased Analysis of Canada’s Food Guide"
Lora Arduser, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Crowdsourced Medicine:
Questions and Implications for Medical Writers"
Susan Rauch, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Out of the Classroom, Into
the Workplace: Simulation and Assimilation of eHealth Curricula"
Barbi Smyser-Fauble, Illinois State University, Normal, "Technical Communication Composing Practices: Making Ethics Visible"

I.19	

Research

Collective Assessment: Writing Assessment, Rhetorical
Practice, and Reader Placement Analysis
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Chair: Miles Kimball, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Michael Young, La Roche College, Pittsburgh, PA, "The Center
Can Hold: Assessment through Communication for the Writing Class,
the Department, of the Institution"

224

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 224

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Patricia Lynne, Framingham State University, MA, "Opening Expertise:
Findings from an Expert Reader Placement Study"
Doug Baldwin, Educational Testing Service, New Hope, PA, "Scoring It
Right: Basic Issues in Conducting Large-Scale Online Writing Assessments"
Mathew Gomes, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Opening Up
‘Validity’: Collective Assessment and Rhetorical Practice"

I.20	

Research

"Opening" Conversations: Culture(s) of Assessment, and
Assessments of Culture
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Bob Broad, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Kayla Bruce, Illinois State University, Normal, "Finding Identity
in Difference: Seeing Race and Culture in Writing Assessment"
Laurenn Jarema, Illinois State University, Normal, "Bridging the Gap: A
Call for Incorporating Process in Writing Assessment Theory and Practice"
Matt Felumlee, Heartland Community College, Normal, IL, "Locavore
Writing Assessment: Consequences of Standardized and Automated
Writing Assessments, and New Strategies for Resistance"

I.21	

Research

Tools Matter: Alternative Writing Environments, Visual
Literacy, and Rhetorical Listening
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

Chair: Raúl Sánchez, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Terese Thonus, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Writing Center Research Design: Matching Question to Methodology"
Chalice Randazzo, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Opening Silences:
Rhetorically Listening over Multiple Methods"
Joseph Cunningham, University of Cincinnati, OH, "The Photovoice Essay
and the Intersection of Critical Composition and Visual Literacy: An Action Research Study"
Kory Ching, San Francisco State University, CA, "Tools Matter: Narratives
of Composing Processes in Alternative Writing Environments"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 225

225

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.22	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Circulating Students’ Texts into and out of Classrooms
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Speakers: Elizabeth Lowry, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Into the
Great Wide Open: Student Blogs and Complications of Genre, Discipline, and Exigence"
Jennifer O’Malley, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Materiality, Production, and Delivery: Exploring the Circulation of Student Texts in
First-Year Composition"
Hank Guelcher, California State University, Long Beach, "Choosing which
Sources to Open: The Risks of Student Archival Research of Institutionally Sensitive Topics"

I.23	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Empathic Pedagogical Approaches: Introspection,
Pathos, and Embodied Action
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Laurie A. Pinkert, Humboldt State University, Arcata, CA
Speakers: Tim Jensen, Oregon State University, Corvallis, "Pathētic Pedagogies: Reimagining the Composition of Pathos, Affect, and Emotion"
Matt McKinney, University of Nevada, Reno, "Know that Feel: An Argument for Teaching Empathy in First-Year Composition"
Nathaniel Street, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Provocative
Textbooks: An Alternative Methodology for Rhetorical Writing"
Lisa Bailey, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Being Open to Possibilities for Invention through a Pedagogy of Silence"

I.24	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Legacies of Undergraduate Research
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor

Chair: Jeff Sihman, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI
Speakers: Enrique Paz, Miami University of Ohio, "Out of the Sandbox, or
How I Became an (Undergraduate) Researcher"
Janet Heller, Michigan College English Association, Portage, "Connecting
Undergraduate Research and Subsequent Scholarly and Creative Writing"

226

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 226

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Justin Hodgson, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Opening Access, Opening Futures: Creative Inquiry, Collaborative Inspiration, and Cultivated
Identities"
Geoffrey B. Elliott, Brooklyn, NY, "Play with It"
Edward Hahn, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Tutored Research"
Respondents: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI
Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas Permian Basin, Odessa, TX
Alyssa-Rae Hug, St. John’s University, New York, NY
Nancy DeJoy, Michigan State University, East Lansing

I.25	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Opening Possibilities for Public Digital Composition in
Writing Courses
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

Chair: Laura McGrath, Kennesaw State University, GA
Speakers: Laura McGrath, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Learn, Serve,
Communicate: An Environmental Digital Storytelling Project"
Mark Gardner, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Remixing History: A
Multimodal Exercise in Composing Public Counterfactual Histories"
Letizia Guglielmo, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Telling the Story of a
City: Writing Place Digitally in Atlanta"

I.26	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Race/Class/Culture: (Re)Opening the First-Year
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Ruben Casas, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Karen Dillon, Blackburn College, Carlinville, IL, "Using HBO’s
The Wire to Open Academic Discourse in Composition"
Naomi Crummey, Blackburn College, Carlinville, IL, "Using HBO’s The
Wire to Open Academic Discourse in Composition"
Dianna Shank, Southwestern Illinois College, Belleville, "’Open’ Conversations on Themed Race FYC Courses"
Itzi Meztli, Slippery Rock University, PA, "The Use of Memoir in Freshman Composition: The Impact of Growing Up in South Texas, Bodega
Style, on the First-Year English Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 227

227

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.27	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric, Information Technologies

Teaching through Resistance in Online Environments
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Speakers: Morgan Chesbro, Kansas State University, Manhattan, "Wait,
What?: Opening Digital Education up to the Technology Resistant"
Stephanie Loomis Pappas, Ann Arbor, MI, "Overshare: Adult Learners’
Anxiety and Disinhibition in Online Writing Classrooms"
Theresa (Tess) Evans, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "The Spaces between the Arches: Addressing Patterns of Silence in the Conversation
about Online Writing Instruction"
John Reilly, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Open Access Authority:
How a Co-Constructed Course Architecture Reduces Student Resistance"

I.28	

Theory

Bridging Cultures and Modes through Visual Rhetorics
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Speakers: Gary Thompson, Saginaw Valley State University, University
Center, MI, "Visual BS"
Dirk Remley, Kent State University, OH, "Opening the Brain to Multimodal Rhetoric: How the Colavita Visual Dominance Effect Can Inform
Multimodal Rhetorical Theory and Instruction"
Anita August, Sacred Heart University, Stratford, CT, "Bringing Down the
(Disciplinary) House: Visual Culture as the ‘Indiscipline’ between Composition and Communication in Academic Writing"

I.29	

Theory

". . . It’s the Originoo Headz Meetin’ the Originoo Crooks
. . .": 21st Century Literacy Practices Openly Composed
on the Spot
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Todd Craig, The College of Staten Island-City University of New
York
Speakers: Todd Craig, The College of Staten Island-City University of New
York, "‘. . . It’s the Originoo Headz’: The Rhetoric of the Hip-Hop DJ as
21st Century Live Composer"
Regina Duthely, St. John’s University, Jamaica, NY, "‘Meetin’ the Originoo
Crooks . . .’: Race, Open Access, and Digital Appropriation"

228

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 228

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.30	

Theory

Recoding Rhetorics: New Applications of Rhetorical
Theory for Emerging Exigencies
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Efficient Rhetoric as an Outcome of Political Rhetoric: "Obamacare’s" Effects on Arguments about Adjunct Preparation and Writing Pedagogy"
Jennifer Buckner, Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC, "Remediation Rhetorics: A Framework for Situating Digital Aural-Written
Composition"
Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College, Alexandra, "Give
Me Liberty: Guerrilla Rhetoric for Writing Programs and Their Administrators"

I.31	

Writing Programs

Access for America’s Emerging Demographic: A Model
for Reducing Remediation and Addressing Linguistic
Diversity in a Minority-Majority FYC Program
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Charles Paine, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "It
Takes a Campus: Developing Partnerships and Support for First-Year
Writing Initiatives"
Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Going Local:
Stretch and Studio Models for America’s Emerging Demographic"
Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, "Prep Work:
Readying Teachers for Stretch"

I.32	

Writing Programs

"I Can See China From My Window!": Using Pedagogy
and Assessment to Identify Fault Lines between
Admissions Criteria and ESL Writing Development
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Rebecca Ingalls, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
Speakers: Barbara Hoekje, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "Changing
Ecologies, Changing Needs: Understanding the Intricacies of Language
Policies and Composition Development"
Lisa Farley, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "What Has to Change?
The ESL Coordinator Responds to an Evolving Role"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 229

229

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Karen Nulton, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "Using Assessment as a
Flashlight: Exploring the Recesses of Uneven Writing Skills"
Rebecca Ingalls, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "‘These Students
Can’t Even Write’: Changing Rhetoric, Reforming the Role of WPA"

I.33	

Writing Programs

Opening the WPA Outcomes Statement beyond First-Year
Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Chair: Shelley DeBlasis, New Mexico State University Carlsbad
Speakers: Teresa Grettano, University of Scranton, PA, "The WPA OS and
Social Media Literacy"
Toni Francis, College of The Bahamas, Nassau, "The WPA OS and Advanced Composition: Critical Literacy, Research Assessment, and Civic
Agency"
Shelley DeBlasis, New Mexico State University, Carlsbad, "The WPA OS
and Basic Writing: Attending to Affect"

I.34	

Writing Programs

Bilingual, L2, and ELL Experiences: Addressing Critical
Issues of Diverse Communities
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Michelle Cox, Dartmouth College, NH
Speakers: Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound, Tacoma,
WA, "Opportunities Lost and Found: Second Language Writing and
Writers at a Small Liberal Arts College"
Harris Bras, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Open Access for L2
Writers in a Time of Globalization"
Lan Wang, State University of New York, NY, "Open to the Possibility of
Bilingual Tutoring for ELLs: Rethinking the Tacit ‘English Only’ Principle at Writing Centers"
Rebecca Richards, St. Olaf College, Northfield, MN, "Opening the ELL
Composition Classroom: Improving International Student Writing and
Uniting Campus Writing Stakeholders"
McKinley Green, St. Olaf College, Northfield, MN, "Opening the ELL
Composition Classroom: Improving International Student Writing and
Uniting Campus Writing Stakeholders"

230

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 230

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.35	

Writing Programs

Opening the Writing Program to the Whole Campus: Four
Innovative Strategies
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Second Floor

Chair: Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Speakers: Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham,
WA, "Opening Up to Placement Alternatives"
Stephen Ruffus, Salt Lake Community College, UT, "Writing as Disciplinary Act: Opening to Faculty Across the Curriculum"
Jeffrey Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ, "Aligning Basic Writing
Curricula with First-Year Composition Outcomes"
Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College, Petoskey, "Opening
Up to Occupational Programs"

I.36	

Theory

Opening Ourselves to Love: Rhetoric, Writing, and
Communication in 21st Century Argument Culture
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor

Chair: Cheryl Glenn, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Speakers: Timothy Oleksiak, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Listening, Love, and Belief in the Writing Classroom"
Royal Brevväxling, Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design, WI, "Radical
Love: Toward the Transformation of Everyday Composition, Teaching,
and Learning"
Kathleen Livingston, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Consent as
Community Care: For Queers, Feminists, and Other Outlaws within and
without Rhet/Comp Trying to Do Right by People and Get Our Work
Done"
Respondent: Cheryl Glenn, The Pennsylvania State University, State College

I.37	

Research

Mirrors and Windows: Examining How Open Access
Policies and Archival Materials Impact African Americans
in Middle America
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: DaMaris Hill, Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville
Speakers: Deborah Dandridge, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "The Kansas Collection and Community"
DaMaris Hill, University of Kentucky Lexington, "The Devil and the Doctor: Archives, Artificial Realities, and the Arts of Narrative in the Digital
Age"
Doretha Williams, Black Archives of Mid-America, Kansas City, MO, "The
Black Archives of Mid-America"
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 231

231

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.38	

Information Technologies

Open Modes, Open Spaces: Multimodal Assignments and
Curriculum through the Eyes of Instructor, Instructional
Designer, and Writing Center Director
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Chair: David Coad, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Kathleen Turner, University of Mississippi, Tupelo, MS, "Click
and Mortar: Creating Cultures of Critical Engagement through Multimodality in Writing Center Spaces"
Andrew Davis, University of Mississippi, Oxford, "Open Minds/Open
Source: Faculty Development and the Language of Multimodality"
David Coad, University of California, Davis, "Opening the Door to Multimodal Composition: Teaching the Transference of Rhetorical Skills from
Social Media to Multimodal Projects"

I.39	

Information Technologies

Online Communities and Possibility: Identity
Representations and Community as It Relates
to the Classroom
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor

Chair: Chelsea Swick, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Sarah Lawrence, Kent State University, OH, "Lines of Communication: Understanding Ethos-Driven Community and Identity"
Madeline Yonker, York College of Pennsylvania, "Comments on Mom
Blogs Reveal Restricted Identity-Community Construction in Online
Interactions"
Kaitlin Clinnin, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Creating Multilingual, Multicultural Learning Communities in the MOOC"
Chelsea Swick, Kent State University, OH, "Community-Created Identity
Representations: The Real World and the Real Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

I.40 Still "Doing School": The Rules of Engagement in the Local,
Global, and Digital Landscapes of Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Jennifer Trainor, San Francisco State University, CA
Speakers: Jennifer Trainor, San Francisco State University, CA, "The Emotioned Rules of Disengagement"
Kate Navickas, Syracuse University, NY, "Student Interpretations of Assignments: Locating Pedagogical Ideologies"
Catherine Prendergast, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "We
Are the World: Confronting the Global Folksonomy of Composition"
Respondent: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, NY

232

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 232

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J Sessions: 2:00–3:15 p.m.
Featured Speakers

Tony Bolden
jessica Care moore
Thomas Sayers Ellis
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Tony Bolden teaches courses on African American literature, music, and cultural studies at The University
of Kansas. He is the author of Afro-Blue: Improvisations in African American Poetry and Culture (Univ of
Illinois Press, 2004) and a collection of essays entitled
The Funk Era and Beyond: New Perspectives on Black
Popular Culture (Palgrave/Macmillan, 2008). Last year,
he served as guest editor for a special issue of American Studies entitled "The Funk Issue," a collection articles, poetry, and visual art that focus on funk music.
Tony Bolden
He is currently working on his manuscript, tentatively
entitled "Blue Funk: The Kinetic Aesthetic in Black Expressive Culture."
Jessica Care Moore is an African American poet
born in Detroit, on October 28, 1971. Moore first won
acclaim as the first poet to ever win the nationally televised Showtime at the Apollo competition 5 times in a
row. That same year, she would be filmed for the documentary SlamNation. The film followed her and the
1996 Nuyorican Poetry Slam Team as they competed at
the 1996 National Poetry Slam. In the book Words In
jessica Care moore
Your Face: A Guided Tour Through Twenty Years of
the New York City Poetry Slam, author Cristin O’Keefe
Aptowicz wrote of Moore’s time in the poetry slam,
noting "Her razor-sharp verse confronted and addressed
the difficulties of being a black woman and a black poet
in a culture that seemed to support neither."
Thomas Sayers Ellis co-founded The Dark Room
Collective (in Cambridge, Massachusetts); and received
his M.F.A. from Brown University. He is the author of
The Maverick Room (2005), which won the John C.
Zacharis First Book Award, and a recipient of a Mrs.
Thomas Sayers Ellis
Giles Whiting Writers’ Award. His poems and photo-

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 233

233

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

graphs have appeared in numerous journals and anthologies, including Callaloo,
Best American Poetry (1997, 2001 and 2010), Grand Street, The Baffler, Jubilat,
Tin House, Poetry, and The Nation. He is also an Assistant Professor of Writing
at Sarah Lawrence College, a faculty member of the Lesley University low-residency M.F.A Program and a Caven Canem faculty member. He lives in Brooklyn, NY and is currently working on The Go-Go Book: People in the Pocket in
Washington, D.C. A new collection of poetry, Skin, Inc., has just appeared from
HYPERLINK
"https://www.graywolfpress.org/index.php?page=shop.flypage
&product_id=321&category_id=0485aa93fa0558fb1f755721e776984d&option
=com_phpshop"Graywolf Press.

Featured Session

J.01 Open(ing) Conversation:
What Are the Threshold Concepts of Composition?
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor
Chair:
Howard Tinberg
Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

Speakers:
Linda Adler-Kassner
University of California, Santa Barbara, "Defining Threshold Concepts in the
Contemporary Policy Climate: Why Now?"
Rebecca Nowacek
Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI, "Threshold Concepts and WAC/Writing
Centers"
Elizabeth Wardle
University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Threshold Concepts and First-Year
Composition"
Heidi Estrem
Boise State University, ID, "Threshold Concepts and General Education"
John Majewski
University of California, Santa Barbara, "Threshold Concepts and General Education"
Respondents:
Shirley Rose
Arizona State University, Tempe

234

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 234

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Chris Anson
North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Liane Robertson
William Paterson University, Wayne, NJ
Kathleen Blake Yancey
Florida State University, Tallahassee

Featured Session

J.06 Teaching Indigenous, Latina/o, African American,
and Latin American Rhetorical Histories
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair:
Victor Villanueva
Washington State University, Pullman

Speakers:
Carmen Kynard
St. John’s University, NY, "African Diaspora Rhetorics and Literacies in the
Classroom"
Aja Y. Martinez
Binghamton University, State University of New York, NY, "Core Coursing
Other(ed) Rhetorics: Non-Western Rhetorics and the Histories of Rhetorics
Classroom"
Cristina Ramirez
University of Arizona, Tucson, "Un Nuevo Puesto: Uncovering Rhetorical
Blindspots to Include Latina Women in the Rhetorical History"
Damian Baca
University of Arizona, Tucson, "Malinche/Malinalli and Rhetorical History"
Respondent: Jessica Enoch
University of Maryland, College Park

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 235

235

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.02	

Basic Writing

Case Closed? Reopening Case Studies of Basic Writers
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, NY, "In Search of
Joe: Returning to a 1990s Study of Basic Writing"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Six Years Later: Lessons from Eric on Reciprocity, Participation, and Sustainability in Basic
Writing Research"
Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Revisiting Charles:
Tracing a Lengthy Trajectory of Knotworking"
Sondra Perl, Lehman College, City University of New York, NY, "Re-Examining the Case Study of Tony: Reflections on Research Methods"

J.03	

Basic Writing

Writing Identity with Cultural Identities
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Chair: Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,
NY
Speakers: Linda Ellis, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "One Woman
Writing: A Case Study"
Tristin Hooker, Missouri State University, Branson, "Writing Home: Teaching Rural Basic Writers as an Insider/Outsider in the Ozarks"
Jasna Shannon, Coker College, Hartsville, SC, "Beyond Cultural Sensitivity: Preserving Cultural Identity in the Writing Center"

J.04	

Community, Civic & Public

Opening Up, Opening Out : Vulnerability, Identity, and
Difference in the Performance of a More Careful Feminist
Ethos
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Chair: Kelly Concannon Mannise, Nova Southeastern University, Fort
Lauderdale, FL
Speakers: Laura Finley, Barry University, Miami, FL, "Speaking Up,
Speaking Out: Community-Based Research to Improve Domestic Violence Services and Prevention Efforts"
Kelly Concannon Mannise, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL, "Our Hidden Work: Informal Mentoring and the Performance
of Feminist Ethos through Literacy Practices"

236

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 236

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.05	

Creative Writing

Rethinking Creative and Academic Writing
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Brian Ray, University of Nebraska at Kearney
Speakers: Justin Zyla, University of Nebraska at Kearney
William Morgan, New York University, NY, "Style’s Sensuous Pedagogy:
Creative Practice in Academic Writing"
Christine Maddox Martorana, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Transform, Lasso, Layer, and Crop: Inviting Visually Creative Academic
Work from Our Students"
Respondent: Stephanie Vanderslice, University of Central Arkansas, Conway

J.07	

Information Technologies

Game-Based Learning for At-Risk Populations
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, MD
Speakers: Cathlena Martin, University of Montevallo, AL
Emi Bunner, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Mary Karcher, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, MD

J.09	

Information Technologies

Opportunities for Access in Online Education: Assessing
and Comparing a Multimodal Curriculum in Online Versus
Face-to-Face Classes
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Andrew Bourelle, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Stephanie Spong, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Anna Knutson, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Tiffany Bourelle, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 237

237

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.10	

Information Technologies

Writing Silence, Reading Voice: Accessing Power through
Video Games
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Speakers: Cody Reimer, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Systems
of Silence, Systems of Voice"
Alex Layne, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Embedded (In)Equities: The Silencing of Women in Video Game Industry through Workplace Policy"
Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Seen and
Not Heard: Women and the Rhetoric of Silence in Video Games and the
Video Game Industry"

J.11	

Institutional and Professional

Multilingualism: TA Training and Program Analysis
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Chair: Jennifer Mallette, University of Arkansas, Little Rock
Speakers: Missy Watson, Syracuse University, NY, "The WPA as Institutional Ethnographer: Mapping Materialities and Uncovering Monolingualist Ideologies"
Carrie Kilfoil, University of Louisville, KY, "The Monolingual Disciplining of Composition Studies: A History of the Language Politics of Doctoral Education in the Field"
Jason Schneider, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "Composition+/TESOL+: Preparing Composition Instructors for a Multilingual World"

J.12	

Institutional and Professional

The Problem of Speaking for/with/as Contingent Faculty:
Navigating Networks of Advocacy
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Marc Bousquet, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, "From
Self-Interest to Shared Interest: Advocating among Tenure-Track Faculty for Contingent Labor Equity"
Tracy Donhardt, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis, "Problems with Organizing in Right-to-Work States"
Bob Samuels, University of California, Los Angeles, "Advocacy in High
Places: Working with Government Officials"
Allison Wright, University of Houston, TX, "The Difficulty of Speaking for
(or as) Graduate Students"

238

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 238

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.13	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Breaking Through and Breaking Open: Re-Engaging
Disenfranchised, Underserved Youth in Public Education
through Critical, Culturally Responsive Literacy and
Language Practices
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: Anna Varley, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI
Speakers: Tiffany Smith, E.O. Smith High School, Stors-Mansfield, CT,
"Culturally Relevant Reading Material and the Written Discourse of African American Males"
Teaira McMurtry, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI, "On Linguistic Variety and Writing Instruction: Teaching Content-Area Teachers
How to Incorporate Writing across the Curriculum with Regard to the
Dialects Their Students Speak"
Anna Varley, Cardinal Stritch University, Milwaukee, WI, "Why Compositionists Need to Know about Literacy and Language Instruction in Public Schooling"

J.14	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Writing as "Friction": Globalization, Texts, and Movement
in Institutional Sites of Writing Exchange
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Yu-Kyung Kang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Catherine Prendergast, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Ligia Mihut, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Eileen Lagman, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Yu-Kyung Kang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Thomas McNamara, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

J.15	

Language

Revisiting the Students’ Right to Their Own Language:
Opening New Possibilities for Composition Theory and
Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Speakers: David E. Kirkland, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
"City Students and SRTOL: Contextualizing SRTOL for the 21st Century"
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Austin Jackson, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 239

239

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.16	

Professional and Technical Writing

Professional(izing) Scholarship in the Open: Engaging
with Libraries to Transform Technical Writing
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor
Chair: Michelle Sidler, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Susan Youngblood, Auburn University, AL
Jaena Alabi, Auburn University, AL
Michelle Sidler, Auburn University, AL

J.17	

Research

Conversations on Composition Studies, CCCC, and the
Research Network Forum on Composition/Rhetoric:
Interrogating the Discipline
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Speakers: KT Torrey, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "This Is A Story about
How To Live As If"
Jessica Slentz, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, "Revisiting the ‘CCCC Guidelines for the Ethical Conduct of Research in Composition Studies’: A Call for Renewed Ethical Guidelines in Composition Studies Post-Web 2.0"
Mark Sutton, Kean University, Union, NJ, "The Influence of the Research
Network Forum on Composition/Rhetoric Scholarship—Stage 2"

J.18	

Research

Opening Up the Small Academic Journal: Questions of
Sources, Access, and the Future of Scholarship
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Joonna Trapp, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
Speakers: Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, NJ, "Re-viewing Scholarly
Peer Review"
Brad Peters, Northern Illinois University, Rockford, IL, "Small-Journal
Editorship, Open Access, and the New Economies of Knowledge"
Joonna Trapp, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, "Form and Function of the
Small Academic Journal—Fixing Past Values and Moving toward the
Future"

240

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 240

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.19	

Research

What about Bob (Connors)? Opening Up Archival
Research through Digital Media
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, NH
Speakers: Corey McCullough, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Shauna Wight, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Wendy VanDellon, University of New Hampshire, Durham
Respondents: John Brereton, University of Massachusetts Boston
Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, CT

J.20	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Collaborative Technologies for Classrooms: Google Docs
Spelling/Grammar Checkers, Genre Tinkering, and Digital
Mentors
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Speakers: Stacey Beauregard, California State University, Santa Barbara,
"Find Your Mentors"
Danielle Koupf, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Tinkering in the English
Classroom"
Alec Fleschner, Columbus State Community College, OH, "Our Silent Editors: Perceptions and Realities of Spelling and Grammar Checkers by
First-Year Writing Students"
Oren Abeles, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,	"A Primer
on Open Source Writing Exercises; or, How to Start Undoing the Panoptical Classroom"

J.21	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Failing to Learn and Learning to Fail
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Justin Thurman, LaGrange College, GA, "A Safe Place to Fail:
Learning How to Lose with Our No-Zero Students"
Allison D. Carr, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Portraits of Failure"
Shane Wood, California State University, Fresno, "Feedback as Failure and
the Fatality of Composition"
Respondent: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 241

241

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.22	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Machine Assessment of the Essays/Essays of the
Machine Assessment: Perspectives on the Role of
Machine Grading in the Writing Classroom and Its
Potential Effects on Pedagogy, Power, and Politics
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: James Heiman, St. Cloud State University, MN
Speakers: Matt Barton, St. Cloud State University, MN, "That Does not
Compute!: Lessons Learned/Unlearned from the History and Discourse
of Computer-Based Writing Assessment"
James Heiman, St. Cloud State University, MN, "That Does not Compute!:
Lessons Learned/Unlearned from the History and Discourse of Computer-Based Writing Assessment"
Jason Tham, St. Cloud State University, MN, "‘Is There a Robot in This
Class?’: The Mechanization of Student, Teacher, and Text in the Writing
Classroom"
Jack Hennes, St. Cloud State University, MN, "The Techno-Realists’ Manifesto: How I Learned to Live with Machine Grading while Preserving
Rhetorical Education in the Writing Classroom"

J.23	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Opening Up and Joining In: Exploring Student
Engagement as Textual Practice
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Third Floor

Chair: Thomas Girshin, Ithaca College, NY
Speakers: Alice Horning, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Engaging
Students through Reading"
William Condon, Washington State University, Pullman, "Wading In: Inventing Academic Writing through Collaborative Explorations of the
Genres"
Ronda Leathers Dively, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Creating ‘Flow’ in FYW: Recognizing and Facilitating Student Engagement"
Thomas Girshin, Ithaca College, NY, "Engagement in Writing about Writing: Attitudes and Practices"

J.24	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Researching to Write, Writing to Research: Teaching
Information Literacy to First-Year Writing Students
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Laura Giovanelli, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Laura Giovanelli, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Gwendolynne Reid, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Anne Burke, North Carolina State University, Raleigh

242

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 242

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.25	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

The Ethics of Assessing Multimodal Student Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Michael Neal, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Michael Neal, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Rhetorical
Rationale in Assessing Multimodal Student Composition"
Joseph Cirio, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Self-Identification in
Assessing Multimodal Student Composition"
David Bedsole, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Design in Assessing
Multimodal Student Composition"
Bruce Bowles, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Agency in Assessing
Multimodal Student Composition"

J.26	

Theory

Composing Queer, Composing Feminist: Opening
Dialogues of Possibility
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Speakers: Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Something
Queer This Way Com(pos)es"
Pamela VanHaitsma, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Albert Dodd’s ‘queer in
the extreme’ Composing, 1836–1839"
Shari Stenberg, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "What Shame Tells Us:
Repurposing Feminized Emotions"
Dahliani Reynolds, Roger Williams University, Bristol, RI, "Flinching at
the F Word: Teaching into Student Resistance"

J.27	

Theory

Mediations of Memory, Identity, Place, and Movement
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Speakers: Julia Romberger, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Minding Movement: The Argument for the Body in Memoria"
Jason Kalin, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "Mobile Media and the Mediations of Memory, Identity, & Place"
Jordan Frith, University of North Texas, Denton, "Mobile Media and the
Mediations of Memory, Identity, & Place"
Celeste Del Russo, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Rhetorical (Re)Invention: A Pedagogy and Memory Practice for the Rhetoric and Composition Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 243

243

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.28	

Theory

Rhetorical Ontologies: Writing through Everyday Things
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Chair: Scot Barnett, Indiana University, Bloomington
Speakers: Scot Barnett, Indiana University, Bloomington, "On the Way to
Rhetorical Realism: Epistemic Rhetoric and the Ontology of Things"
Cydney Alexis, University of Denver, CO, "Material Culture Inquiry and
the Composition Classroom: Writing and Researching through Things"
Steven Holmes, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Knack, Craft, and
New Media Carpentry"
Casey Boyle, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "‘Practice Makes Perception’: Speculative Writing as Ontological Practice"

J.29	

Writing Programs

Access to a Brighter Future for At-Risk Students:
Writing Studies Program Strategies for Increasing
Student Success in Composition I
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: Tara Hembrough, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
Speakers: Jason Kirker, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Advantages of the Pilot"
Chris Field, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Drawbacks to the
Pilot and Strategies to Address Them"
Jonathan Patterson, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Instructor’s
Role in the Pilot"
Tara Hembrough, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, "Description of
the Pilot and Study"

J.30	

Writing Programs

Is Going Rogue So Bad? Negotiating Restrictions Placed
on Teaching Asistants in First-Year English
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Iris Ruiz, CA
Speakers: Alyssa Crow, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Teachers Need
Learning Communities, Too"
Megan Boeshart, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Mining for Mentors"
Alexis McGee, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Teaching Assistant
Paradox and Practices"
Jose Cano, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Training Teaching Assistants"

244

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 244

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.31	

Writing Programs

Opening Up Freshman Comp to the Disciplines: Using
Content-Area Faculty in First-Year Writing Seminars
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Kyung-Hee Bae, Rice University, Houston, TX
Speakers: Kyung-Hee Bae, Rice University, Houston, TX
Elizabeth Barre, Rice University, Houston, TX
Tracy Volz, Rice University, Houston, TX

J.32	

Writing Programs

Co-Cultural Dis/Ability Discourses: Redefining Access in
the Cs
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Chair: Michelle Elliott, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Caroline Richardson, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Monsters, Freaks, and Villains: A Cultural Studies Analysis of the Deformed
in ‘Penelope’"
Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas Permian Basin, Odessa, "The Intersection of Writing Centers and Disability Studies"
Nancy Wilson, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Exclusive Inclusivity: Exploring Why Individuals with Disabilities so often Are Not, but
Should Be, Included in Diversity Initiatives"
Shaun Bryan, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Queering the Monster:
Utilizing Queer and Crip Theory to Reimagine Dis/ability"

J.33	

Writing Programs

Opening Up New Writing Partnerships: Broadening
Program Reach across the University
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Patti Hanlon-Baker, Stanford University, CA
Speakers: Shay Brawn, Stanford University, CA
Julia Bleakney, Stanford University, CA
Alyssa O’Brien, Stanford University, CA
Christine Alfano, Stanford University, CA

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 245

245

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.34	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

Hemispheric Americas: Opening Rhetorical (Re)sources
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Lance Langdon, University of California-Irvine
Speakers: Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Migrations
between Disciplines: Opening Sources of Transnational Literacy Studies
across Fields"
Paul Dahlgren, Georgia Southwestern State University, Americus, "Hemispheric Harvard: Opening Old Sources to New Interpretations"
Abraham Romney, Michigan Technological University, Houghton, "Opening Up Standard English through Hemispheric Rhetoric and Composition"

J.35	

Institutional and Professional

Open This Box—Rubrics, Machine Grading, and the Case
of Automotive Writing Instruction
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Chair: Tim Donovan, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, FL
Speakers: Linda Howell, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, "The
War of the Rubrics: Using Assessment to Build a Writing Program"
Tim Donovan, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, FL, "The Problem
of Efficiency concerning The EdX Automated Grading Program"
David Mackinnon, University of North Florida, Jacksonville, "Assessing
the Efficiency and Effectiveness of the EdX Automated Grading Program: A Comparative Case Study"

J.36	

Information Technologies

Mobile Data, Mobile Selves: Smartphones, Big Data, and
the Composition of Authorship
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor
Chair: June Griffin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Andrew Pilsch, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Jessica Schreyer, University of Dubuque, IA
June Griffin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

246

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 246

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.37	

History

Visual Rhetoric for Political Action
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor

Chair: Morris Young, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Speakers: Anne Wheeler, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Rendering
Everyday Life: Tactical Artwork by Interred Japanese American Artists"
Josh Mehler, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "On the Move: Mobility,
Multimodal Design, and the Guerrilla Television Movement"

J.38	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

Shaping the Rhetoric: Disability Accommodation
Practices, Letters, and Performances
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Second Floor

Chair: Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver
Speakers: Amy Vidali, University of Colorado, Denver, "Legal Obligations
and Rhetorical Failures: How College Faculty Perceive and Use Disability Accommodations Letters"
Tara Wood, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Writing Accommodations:
Student Perspectives on the Limitations of ‘Conventional’ Approaches
to Access"
Tana Schiewer, Virginia Tech University, Blacksburg, "Out of Sight, Out of
Mind: The Rhetorical Challenges of Invisible Disabilities"
Dev Bose, Iowa State University, Ames, "Mental Disorders in Academia: A
Small-Scale Heuristic Study"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 247

247

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

K Sessions: 3:30–4:45 p.m.
Featured Session

K.14 Futuristic Visions, Bold Reimaginings:
The Conciliatory Rhetorical World of
Mesoamerica and Mestizos
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair:
Andrea A. Lunsford
Stanford University, CA

Speakers:
Jaime Mejia
Texas State University, San Marcos, "From the Florentine Codex to Pocho Lalo
Alcaraz: Opening Up Chican@ Rhetorics"
Laura Ellis-Lai
University of Texas at San Antonio, "Ethnographic Research, Cultural Survival
Skills, and College Persistence"
Casie Moreland
Arizona State University, Tempe, "Rigoberta Menchu and Written Stories (or
Voices) of the Oppressed: Alternative Rhetorics in First-Year Composition"
Monica De Los Santos
Texas State University, San Antonio, "Alternative Chican@ Rhetorics: An Examination of the Rhetorical Devices and Appeals in the Non-Fictional Works of
Chican@s"

248

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 248

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Featured Session

K.29 Technologies of Identity and the
Future of Literacy Studies
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor
Chair:
Jonathan Alexander
University of California, Irvine

Speakers:
Elisabeth Miller
University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Disrupting Literacy through Disability"
Morris Young
University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Open Access: Rewriting Racial Identity as
a Technology of Literacy"
Neil Simpkins
University of Wisconsin-Madison, "The ‘Obligatory Transsexual File’: Methods for Researching Transgender Literacy Practices"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 249

249

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Academic Writing

K.01	 Opening the Writing Classroom to Play: Using Games to
Teach the Argumentative Paper
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Chair: Diann Baecker, Virginia State University, Petersburg
Speakers: Diann Baecker, Virginia State University, Petersburg, "‘Now, Let
me Tell You Why My Idea is the Best’: Using Games to Teach Rhetorical
Strategies in Argumentative Writing"
Michael McClure, Virginia State University, Petersburgh, "Gaming the
Classroom: Using Play to Teach First-Year Writing"
Robert Wieman, Virginia State University, Petersburg, "From Aristotle to
Pokemon: The Relationship between Rhetoric and Game Studies"
Basic Writing

K.02	 Creative Redesigns for Open Admissions: Increasing
Access at Two-Year Colleges
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: Katie Malcolm, South Seattle Community College, WA
Speakers: Colleen Halverson, University of Wisconsin-Richland, "Students as Subject: Subverting the Work of Remediation on the Two-Year
College Campus"
Katie Malcolm, South Seattle Community College, WA, "Hybridizing Accelerated Learning Classes"
Erin Steinke, South Seattle Community College, WA, "The One-Room
Schoolhouse: Accelerated Learning for Multi-Level English Classes"
Holly Gilman, South Seattle Community College, WA, "Collisions: The
System and Activity of the Two-year College as a Reluctant Means for
Creative Redesign"
Community, Civic & Public

K.03	 Access without the Internet: Using Literacy to Build
Community across Difference
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Christopher Wilkey, Northern Kentucky University, Newport
Speakers: Daniel Cleary, Lorain County Community College, Elyria, OH,
"Access behind the Walls: Literacy and Writing in Prison"
Christopher Wilkey, Northern Kentucky University, Newport, "Using Literacy to ‘Go Public’ in a Homeless Shelter"
Bonnie Neumeier, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Reflective Writing
Circles: Compelling Students to Process their Lived Experiences with
Crossing Borders"

250

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 250

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

K.04	 LGBT and Queer Perspectives in Digital Landscapes and
Beyond
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair: Estee Beck, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Bret Keeling, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Queer
Pedagogies, Open Access, and the Social Imagination"
Collyn Warner, The University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, "#Equality: LGBTQ Activists’ Work in Public Digital Landscapes"
Emily Hooper-Lewis, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Individuals Negotiating Access to Religious Social Goods via Facebook: The United
Methodist Church’s Ongoing Debate over LGBTQ Inclusion"
Community, Civic & Public

K.05	 Reimagining Popular Culture in an Open Society: Media,
Sports, and Advertising
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida, Winter Park
Speakers: James Zimmerman, James Madison University, Harrisonburg,
VA, "Coach Tony Dungy’s Emancipation: Individuality, Community,
and Equality in Sport and Society"
Laura Michael Brown, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"No One Asked Us: Composition Studies and the Rhetoric of Literacy
Crisis in American Popular Journalism"
Sarah Austin, Colorado State University, Denver, "Sex Doesn’t Sell: Using
an Advertising Analysis to Advocate for Public Intellectualism in Rhetoric and Composition"
History

K.06	 19th Century Women’s Rhetoric: Medicine, Mental Health,
Theater, and Elocution
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Craig A. Meyer, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Paige Banaji, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Opening
Rhetorical Possibilities for Turn-of-the-Century Women: The Elocution
Teachings of Henrietta Hovey"
Lisa Suter, University of Tampa, FL, "Catalogs of ‘Women Worthies’ in
Nineteenth-Century Rhetorical Dramas: Women’s History and Future
Bring Down the (Master’s) House"
Madaline Walter, Benedictine College, Atchison, KS, "Access to the World
beyond Walls: Women Writing for an Insane Asylum Newsletter"
Carolyn Skinner, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Accessing Authoritative Rhetorical Space: The Editorial Writing of Eliza H. Root, M.
D."
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 251

251

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

K.07	 Addressing Distraction, Fragmentation, and Loss in a
Milieu of Speed and Pastiche
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Kelli Custer, Western Connecticut State University, Danbury
Speakers: Ben Wetherbee, University of Louisville, KY, "Picking Up the
Fragments of the 2012 Election: What Do Memes Mean for Rhetoric?"
Michael Keller, South Dakota State University, Brookings, "Whither Rigor?: The Culture of Distraction and the Crisis of Dispersed Consciousness"
Information Technologies

K.08	 Multimodal, Remix, and Hybrid Tactics and Engagement
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Speakers: Jayne Moneysmith, Kent State University at Stark, "Building
Community through the ‘Flipped Classroom’ Model in Hybrid Courses"
Dustin Edwards, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Remix as Tactical: The
Rhetorical Potential of Reappropriating Oppressive Discourse"
Katie Arosteguy, University of California, Davis, "Going Multimodal in the
Advanced Composition Classroom: Students Make New and Exciting
Rhetorical Choices"
Information Technologies

K.09	 Ownership, Audience, and Genre in Digital Texts
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Speakers: Alan Clinton, Santa Clara University, CA, "Open-Access Journals and the Question of Specialized Readers"
Janine Morris, University of Cincinnati, OH, "A Genre-Based Approach to
Digital Reading"
Jennifer Jacovitch, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA, "What
Happens If You Publish Student Work Online: An Account of How a
Digital Undergraduate Research Network Can Be an Organizing Medium for a Program of Study in Rhetoric, Writing, and Technical Communication"
Charles Lowe, Grand Valley State University, Allendale, MI, "Openness
and the Writer/Teacher/Researcher/Author"

252

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 252

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

K.10	 Technological Interventions, Pedagogical Reinterpretation: Teaching Peer Review, Genre-Based Writing, and
Critical information Literacy in Online/Hybrid Education
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara
Speakers: Paula Gonzalez Alvarez, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de
Chile, "On-Line Design as an Opportunity to Rethink Writing Pedagogies: A Case Study in The Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile"
Natalia Avila, University of California, Santa Barbara, "On-line Design as
an Opportunity to Rethink Writing Pedagogies: A Case Study in The
Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile"
Charlyne Sarmiento, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Critical Literacy in our Information Age: Remediating Plagiarism"
Lydia Saravia, University of Illinois, Chicago, "Situated Writing through
Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr"
Information Technologies

K.11	 You Left Your Knowledge Open: Using Rikiwiki for
Collaborative Knowledge-Building in Writing Studies
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Chair: Michelle Sidler, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Heather Young, Auburn University, AL
Heath Fowler, Auburn University-Montgomery
Samuel Morris, Auburn University, AL
Shane Ruckstuhl, Auburn University, AL
Kellie Gray, Point University, East Point, GA
Stephen Carradini, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Institutional and Professional

K.12	 Opening the Sources of Collaboration: Building
Communities of Students, Constructing Communities
of Teachers
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Speakers: Paul Walker, Murray State University, KY, "Open-Source Assessment and Writing Program Culture"
Misty Evans, Murray State University, KY, "Honors Basic Writing? Opening Access with an Accelerated Program"
Jeff Osborne, Murray State University, KY, "Bridging the Gap with Teachers as Engineers: A Collaboration among University and High-School
English Teachers"
Michael Morgan, Murray State University, KY, "Collaborating in the
Trenches: Professors as Partners in a Rural High School English Class"
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 253

253

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

K.13	 The Writing Center is Open: Providing Access amid
Institutional Pressures
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Speakers: Donna Evans, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande, "Planning
for Segue: Strategizing the Writing Center’s Dual Online/On-Campus
Functions"
Elizabeth Morley, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Opening
Our Doors to the World"
Danielle Cordaro, University of Mount Union, Akron, OH, "Slash Dance:
Performing Multliteracy in the Comp/Comm Center"
Jaclyn Wells, University of Alabama at Birmingham, "Student Perspectives
on Enrollment Initiatives and Required Tutoring"
Language

K.15	 Breaking through Boundaries of Ascribed Black Identities
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Speakers: Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "You
Cannot Not Show Respect: Sociolinguistic Constructions of Politeness
within the African American Speech Community"
Monique Akassi, Bowie State University, MD, "An Ethnography Study on
Rhetorical and Linguistic Accounts of Digital Literacy among Marginalized Students"
Vanessa Rouillon, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Sponsoring Literacies, Inventing Ethos: An Early Twentieth-Century African
American Lyceum"
Arianna Howard, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Discourse Practices of a "Cool" Black Girl: Breaking through Boundaries of Ascribed
Identity"
Language

K.16	 Second Language Writing Transitions and Pedagogies
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Amy Weaver, University of California Santa Cruz
Speakers: Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College, Westport, MA,
"Straddling the ESL/English Department Divide: Reporting on a Local,
Ethnographic Study of Non-Native Speakers’ Writing Development"
Carrie Chang, Tamkang University, New Taipei City, "The Benefits of L2
Peer Response to Reviewers’ Writing"

254

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 254

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Rachel Adams Goertel, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park,
"Discourse Markers: A Direction toward L2 Communicative Competence in Writing"
Angela Rounsaville, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Students Becoming ‘Local’: Transitioning Linguistic and Literate Identities across
National Contexts"
Professional and Technical Writing

K.17	 The Open-Sourcing of Tech Comm: DIY Sites and TC
Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Miles Kimball, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Timothy Elliott, Texas Tech, Lubbock, "Using Instructables to
Create Authentic Audience-Centered Instruction Sets"
Amelia Chesley, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Splinters and
Shards of Secondary Orality: Digital Authors and Audiences on Pinterest"
Angela Shaffer, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Using Instructables to
Create Authentic Audience-Centered Instruction Sets"
Miles Kimball, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "DIY Tech Comm and the
Compleat Idiot"
Research

K.18	 From Pain to Possibilities: Effective and Efficient Student
Feedback in First-Year Composition
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Kathleen Lawson, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Christina Hall, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Laura Gabrion, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Jennifer Coon, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Research

K.19	 Roads Less Traveled: Opening New Pathways for
Archival Research Methods

JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
Chair: Emma Howes, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Emma Howes, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "A Dim
Candle over a Dark Abyss: Patching Together a History of Appalachian
Women’s Literacy in the Carolina Textile Mills"
Anne Bello, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Fast Access to Snail
Mail: Navigating Abundance in a Traditional Archive"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 255

255

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.20	 21st Century Platforms: Digital Delivery and Civic
Engagement
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Lee Nickoson, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: April Conway, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Civic
Rhetoric and Technology Literacies Effecting Change"
Tina Arduini, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Alternate Endings:
Synthesizing Videogame Literacy and Fanfiction to Develop 21st Century Literacies"
Pauline Baird, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Using the Kindle to
Engage in Conversational Rhetoric in the College Composition Classroom"
Ken Hayes, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Circling the Progymnasmata: Using Google + to Contemporize the Progymnasmata"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.21	 Comics and Multimodal Texts for Rhetorical Education
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom X, Third Floor

Chair: Brenda Spencer, Ivy Tech Community College, Indianapolis, IN
Speakers: Lee Odell, Rensselaer Polytechnic University, Troy, NY, "Bridging the Gap: Integrating Multimodal Composition into the Writing Class"
Alex Romagnoli, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "The Products of
Process: Utilizing Multimodal Texts in a Composition Course"
Mary Assad, Seven Hills, OH, "Comics and Rhetoric in the First-Year
Composition Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.22	 From Page to Screen: Rhetorical Theory, Text, and
Originality in New Media
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware, Newark
Speakers: Joseph Harris, University of Delaware, Newark, "Teaching the
Essay in the Digital Age"
Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware, Newark, "A Digital Humanity: Using Classical Rhetoric in the New Media Classroom"

256

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 256

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.23	 Meaning Language and Learning in Transnational
Contexts
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Speakers: Xueying Wu, Shanghai University, China, "The Urgency of Intercultural Rhetoric"
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Calling Attention to Intercultural and Multicultural Literacies: Preparing Students for Transnational Workplaces"
Jianing Liu, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Reinventing the University—in a Second Language"
Yuching Yang, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Reinventing the University—in a Second Language"
Dominic Ashby, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Opening the Gates of Academic Discourse: Inside-Outside Positionalities as Pedagogy in ESL/
EFL Rhetoric and Composition Classrooms"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.24	 Out in the Open: Hooking Up in the Modern, Digital Era
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Chair: Stephanie Amada, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Siobahn Jones, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Womanism: Hook Up Culture and Race"
Emily Dallaire, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Tweets and
Texts: The Impact of Virtual Communities on College Students and Relationships"
Brooklyn Pluger, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Let’s Talk
About Hook Ups: The Impact of Hook Up Culture on College Students"
Stephanie Amada, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Beyond
Boundaries: Discussing Sex with Undergrads in the Writing Classroom"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.25	 Resistance in, around, and about Teaching Writing
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Speakers: Leslie Werden, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA, "Creative
Visions for Overcoming Resistance in Faculty Development"
Jeremy Schnieder, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA, "‘You can’t tell me
how to write’: Reconceptionalizing Student Resistance"
David Elder, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA, "Resisting the Divide:
Where High School and College Writing Meet"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 257

257

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

K.26	 Virtual Spaces: Classroom Design, Tumblr in FYC, and
Blog-Based Pedagogies
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Speakers: Jennifer England, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces,
"Multimodal and Multiliterate Learning: Using Tumblr in the First-Year
Writing Classroom"
Annette Vee, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Writing in Public: A Survey
Study of Blog-Based Pedagogy"
Trey Conatser, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "’Choices and Constraints’: Codes and Futures of Composition"
Michael Donnelly, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Classroom Spaces
and Virtual Places: Technology, Writing, Pedagogy"
Theory

K.27	 Feminist Ruptures, Feminist Responses: Toward a
Deeper Democracy
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VI, Third Floor

Chair: Joyce Irene Middleton, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Speakers: Joyce Irene Middleton, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Shirley Logan, University of Maryland, College Park
Cheryl Glenn, The Pennsylvania State University, State College
Theory

K.28	 Neuroscientific Approaches to Writing Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Speakers: Jacquelyn Bustos, Purdue University, Calumet, IN, "Pedagogical Code-Switching: Navigating Neurodiversity in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
Cynthia-Marie O’Brien, Astoria, NY, "Neuroplasticity’s Lessons for Harnessing the Developmental Capabilities of Beginning Graduate Writers"
Don Bushman, University of North Carolina Wilmington, "Cognition is Action: Bringing Embodied Cognition to the Writing Classroom"

258

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 258

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

K.30	 Assessment at the Center: Accessing Opportunities for
Change
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Lennie Irvin, San Antonio College, TX
Speakers: Erin M. Andersen, City University of New York, NY, "Agents
Online: Assessing Access to Transfer in Online Tutoring Initiatives"
Kim Ballard, Western Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Collaborative Writing Center Assessment = Faculty Education"
Ernie Tscalis, San Antonio College, TX, "The Three-Session Threshold:
Opening Access to Student Success through Multiple Tutoring Sessions"
Lennie Irvin, San Antonio College, TX, "The Three-Session Threshold:
Opening Access to Student Success through Multiple Tutoring Sessions"
Michael Cripps, University of New England, Portland, ME, "Opening Access for Basic Writers: Assessing a Writing Center-Freshman Composition Partnership"
Writing Programs

K.31	 Literacy: Pushing Students to Its Strength
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: Christine Murray, Texas A&M University, College Station
Speakers: William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA, "Accessing the
Future through Assessment: Translingualism as a Standard for Writing
Program Strength"
Julie Kozee, Northwestern State University, Natchitoches, LA, Cartersville,
GA, "Early to Read; Early to Rise: The Importance of Literacy in the
Future Success of Elementary Students and How the College Writing
Classroom Relates"
Justin Grover, Boise State University, ID, "Writing for the Future"
Writing Programs

K.32	 Opening Up the Intellectual Work of Teaching Writing:
Supporting Pedagogical Growth for Disciplinary Faculty
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Margaret Marshall, Auburn University, AL
Speakers: Margaret Marshall, Auburn University, AL, "Analogous Thinking: Frameworks for Considering Our Work with Faculty"
Laura Elmer, Auburn University, AL, "ePortfolios: An ‘Open’ Future"
Neecee Matthews-Bradshaw, Auburn University, AL, "Connections and
Disjunctions: What We’re Learning from Researching Faculty Teaching
Writing in the Disciplines"
Respondent: David Weaver, Auburn University, AL

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 259

259

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Writing Programs

K.33	 Labor, Leadership, and the Professionalization of Peer
Tutors
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Chair: Gregory Adams, University of Nebraska Lincoln
Speakers: Angela Glover, Midland University, Fremont, NE, "Betwixt and
Between Professional Leadership"
Michael Kelly, Champlain College, Burlington, VT, "Institutional Literacy
and the Professionalization of Peer Tutors"
Gregory Adams, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, "Leadership and Getting
the Work Done"
Writing Programs

K.34	 Open Source Assessment: Whose Data Is This Anyway?
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Joyce Walker, Illinois State University, Normal
Speakers: Moria Torrington, Illinois State University, Normal, "Databasing: Documenting and Assessing Students’ Existing Literate Activities"
Chereka Dickerson, Illinois State University, Normal, "Toward an Always
Open Door Policy: Instructor Participation in a Program-Wide Assessment"
Joyce R. Walker, Illinois State University, Normal, "Promoting Knowledge
about Information Fluency: An Evolving Assessment"
Institutional and Professional

K.35	 Getting a Job in a Two-Year College
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: David Lydic, Austin Community College, TX
Speakers: Alexis Nelson, Spokane Falls Community College, WA, "Writing an Outstanding Application Letter"
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA, "Finding Job Openings in TwoYear Colleges"
David Lydic, Austin Community College, TX, "The Art of the Interview"

260

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 260

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

K.36 	 Publishing in Studies in Writing and Rhetoric:
To All—Whatever Your Institutional Affiliation—
Who Are Interested
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Chair: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
Speakers: Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "One SWR Author"
Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College, Chicago, IL, "A Reviewer: One
Perspective"
Robin Gosser, Auburn University, AL, "The Electronic Process"

K.37	 Think-Tank for Newcomers Developing Papers and
Sessions for CCCC 2015
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Joonna Trapp, Emory University, Clarkston, GA

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 261

261

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Tampa, FL 2015
Marriott Waterfront and Tampa
Convention Center
March 18–21, 2015
For Program Proposal Deadline
visit
www.ncte.org/cccc/conv
See You There!!

262

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 262

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC Awards/
Recognition Reception
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VII,
Third Floor
5:00–6:30 p.m.
Chair: Adam Banks, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, University of Kentucky, Lexington
At this reception we announce the winners of the 2014 Outstanding Book Award,
The James Berlin Memorial Outstanding Dissertation Award, The Braddock Award,
the Award for Best Article in TETYC, the Nell Ann Pickett , and others. Past CCCC
Chairs, distinguished guests, and international participants will be recognized. A
light reception follows. Please take the time to come celebrate with your colleagues.

AWARDS PRESENTATIONS
OUTSTANDING BOOK AWARD
This award is presented to the author(s) or editor(s) of a book making an outstanding
contribution to composition and communication studies. Books are evaluated for
scholarship or research and for applicability to the study and teaching of composition
and communication.

Outstanding Book Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Marilyn Cooper, Michigan Technological University, Houghton
LuMing Mao, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe

Previous Award Winners
2013	
		
		
		
2012 	
		
		
		

Susan H. Delagrange, Technologies of Wonder: Rhetorical Practice in a 	
Digital World
Margaret Price, Mad at School: Rhetorics of Mental Disability and
Academic Life
David Fleming, From Form to Meaning: Freshman Composition and the 	
Long Sixties, 1957-1974
Bruce Horner, Min-Zhan Lu, and Paul Kei Matsuda, Cross-Language 		
Relations in Composition
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 263

263

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2011 	
2010 	
2009 	
		

Xiaoye You, Writing in the Devil’s Tongue: A History of English Composition in China
David Gold, Rhetoric at the Margins: Revising the History of Writing Instruction in American Colleges, 1873-1947
Charles Bazerman, Handbook of Research on Writing: Society, School, Individual, Text
John M. Duffy, Writing from These Roots: Literacy in a Hmong-American
Community

For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
oba

JAMES BERLIN MEMORIAL OUTSTANDING
DISSERTATION AWARD
Renamed to honor James Berlin, this award recognizes a graduate whose dissertation
improves the educational process through research or scholarly inquiry or adds to the
body of knowledge in composition studies.

Berlin Outstanding Dissertation Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Laura Brady, West Virginia University, Morgantown
Elias Dominguez Barajas, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks
Jeanne Gunner, Chapman University, Orange, CA
Amy Stornaiuolo, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

Previous Award Winners
2013	 Heather Brook Adams, "Secrets and Silences: Rhetorics of Unwed Pregnancy Since 1960"
2012 	 Ana Maria Wetzl, "L2 Writing in the L1 Composition Course: A Model for
Promoting Linguistic Tolerance"
2011 	 Carolyn J. Fulford, "Writing Across the Curriculum Program Development
as Ideological and Rhetorical Practice"
2010 	 Risa Applegarth, "Other Grounds: Popular Genres and the Rhetoric of Anthropology, 1900-1940"
2009 	 Eric D. Turley, "The Scientific Management of Writing and the Residue of
Reform"
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
berlin

264

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 264

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

THE RICHARD BRADDOCK AWARD
The Richard Braddock Award is presented to the author of the outstanding article
on writing or the teaching of writing in the CCCC journal, College Composition
and Communication, during the year ending December 31 before the annual CCCC
spring convention. The award was created to honor the memory of Richard Braddock, University of Iowa. Richard Braddock was an extraordinary person and teacher who touched the lives of many people in ways that this special award established
in his name can only suggest.

Braddock Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Ellen Cushman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Carmen Kynard, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, CUNY
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University, Milwaukee, WI
Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT

Previous Award Winners
2013	 Dylan B. Dryer, "At a Mirror, Darkly: The Imagined Undergraduate Writers
of Ten Novice Composition Instructors," February 2012
2012 	 Brandy Nalani McDougall and Georganne Nordstrom, "Ma ka Hana ka ‘Ike
(In the Work Is the Knowledge): Kaona as Rhetorical Action," September
2011
2011 	 Anne-Marie Pedersen, "Negotiating Cultural Identities through Language:
Academic English in Jordan," December 2010
2010 	 Shevaun E. Watson, "Good Will Come of This Evil": Enslaved Teachers
and the Transatlantic Politics of Early Black Literacy," September 2009
2009 	 Ellen Barton, "Further Contributions from the Ethical Turn in Composition/
Rhetoric: Analyzing Ethics in Interaction," June 2008
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
braddock

OUTSTANDING DISSERTATION AWARD IN
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
This award recognizes a dissertation in Technical Communication whose research is
original, makes a contribution to the field, uses a sound methodological approach,
demonstrates awareness of the existing research in the area studied, and demonstrates an overall high quality of writing.

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 265

265

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Outstanding Dissertation Award in Technical Communication
Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Stacey Pigg, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Shreelina Ghosh, Dakota State University, Madison, SD
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University-San Marcos
Jim Ridolfo, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Douglas Walls, University of Central Florida, Orlando

Previous Award Winners
2013	 Ehren Pflugfelder
2012 	 Joy Santee
2011 	 Colleen Derkatch
2010 	 Rebekka Andersen
2009 	 Jonathan Buehl
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://

TECHNICAL and scientific COMMUNICATION
awards
This award recognizes outstanding books and articles in technical and scientific communication in six categories: Best Book, Best Original Collection of Essays, Best
Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research, Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies, Best Article on Philosophy or Theory, and Best
Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum.

Technical and Scientific Communication Awards Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Stephen Bernhardt, University of Delaware, Newark
Rebecca Burnett, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta
Laura Gurak, University Of Minnesota, St. Paul
Bruce Maylath, North Dakota State University, Fargo
Elizabeth Tebeaux, Texas A&M University, College Station

Previous Award Winners
2013
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Huatong Sun, Cross-cultural technology design: Creating culture-sensitive technology for local users
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Jessica Reyman and Mary Lay Schuster, "Special Issue: Technical Communication
and the Law," Technical Communication Quarterly
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Sarah Read, "The Mundane, Power, and Symmetry: A
266

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 266

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Reading of the Field with Dorothy Winsor and the Tradition of Ethnographic Research," Technical Communication Quarterly, 20:4, 2011, 353–383
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or Scientific Communication: Jacob E. McCarthy, Jeffrey T. Grabill, William Hart-Davidson, and Michael McLeod, "Content Management in the Workplace: Community,
Context, and a New Way to Organize Writing," Journal of Business and Technical
Communication, 25:4, 2011, 367–395
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
Doug Brent, "Transfer, Transformation, and Rhetorical Knowledge: Insights From
Transfer Theory," Journal of Business and Technical Communication, 25:4, 2011,
396–420
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Cheryl Ball, "Assessing Scholarly Multimedia: A Rhetorical Genre Studies
Approach," Technical Communication Quarterly, 21:1, 2012, 61-77
2012
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Brad Mehlenbacher, Instruction and technology: Designs for everyday learning
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Margaret Hundleby and Jo Allen, Assessment in Technical and Professional Communication
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Edward A. Malone, "‘Chrysler’s ‘Most Beautiful Engineer’: Lucille J. Pieti in the Pillory of Fame." Technical Communication Quarterly,
19:2, 2010, 144-183
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Clay Spinuzzi, "Secret Sauce and Snake Oil: Writing
Monthly Reports in a Highly Contingent Environment." Written Communication,
27:4, 2010, 363-409
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication: Jason Swarts, "Recycled Writing: Assembling Actor Networks From Reusable
Content." Journal of Business and Technical Communication, 24:2, 2010, 127-163
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Natasha Artemeva and Janna Fox, "Awareness Versus Production: Probing
Students’ Antecedent Genre Knowledge." Journal of Business and Technical Communication, 24:4, 2010, 476-515
2010
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Carol Siri Johnson, The
Language of Work: Technical Communication at Lukens Steel, 1810-1925
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
Christina Hass, Written Communication, Special issue on Writing and Medicine,
26(3-4) July-October 2009, 215-396
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Catherine Schryer, Elena Afros, Marcellina Mian, Marlee Spafford, & Lorelei Lingard, "The Trial of the Expert Witness: Negotiating CredCCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 267

267

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

ibility in Child Abuse Correspondence," Written Communication, 26(3), July 2009:
215-246
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Christa Teston, "A Grounded Investigation of Genred
Guidelines in Cancer Care Deliberations," Written Communication, 26(3), July
2009: 320-348
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
S. Scott Graham, "Agency and the Rhetoric of Medicine: Biomedical Brain Scans
and the Ontology of Fibromyalgia," Technical Communication Quarterly, 18(4), Fall
2009: 376-404
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Rachel Spilka, "Practitioner Research Instruction: A Neglected Curricular Area
in Technical Communication Undergraduate Programs," Journal of Business and
Technical Communication, 23(2), April 2009: 216-237
2009
Best Book in Technical or Scientific Communication: Jason Swarts. Together
with Technology: Writing Review, Enculturation and Technological Mediation. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company, Inc. 2008.
Best Original Collection of Essays in Technical or Scientific Communication:
No award given.
Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies in Technical or
Scientific Communication: No award given.
Best Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research in Technical or
Scientific Communication: Stuart Blythe, Jeffrey T. Grabill, & Kirk Riley. "Action Research and Wicked Environmental Problems: Exploring Appropriate Roles
for Researchers in Professional Communication," Journal of Business and Technical
Communication, 22(3), (July 2008): 272-298.
Best Article on Philosophy or Theory of Technical or Scientific Communication:
Jason Swarts. "Information Technologies as Discursive Agents: Methodological Implications for the Empirical Study of Knowledge Work," Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 38(4), (2008): 301-329.
Best Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum in Technical or Scientific Communication: Deanna P. Dannels & Kelly Norris Martin. "Critiquing Critiques: A Genre
Analysis of Feedback Across Novice to Expert Design Studios," Journal of Business
and Technical Communication, 22(2), (April 2008): 135-158.
For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
techsci

WRITING PROGRAM CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
This award program, established in 2004, honors up to 20 writing programs a year. 
Programs must successfully demonstrate that their program meets the following criteria: it imaginatively addresses the needs and opportunities of its students, instructors, and locale; offers exemplary ongoing professional development for faculty of
268

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 268

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

all ranks, including adjunct/contingent faculty; treats contingent faculty respectfully,
humanely, and professionally; uses current best practices in the field; uses effective,
ongoing assessment and placement procedures; models diversity and/or serves diverse communities; has appropriate class size; and has an administrator (chair, director, coordinator, etc.) with academic credentials in writing.

Writing Program Certificate of Excellence Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

William Banks, East Carolina University, Greenville
Lilian Brannon, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
C. Bradley Dilger, Western Illinois University, Macomb
Lauren Fitzgerald, Yeshiva University, New York, NY
Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque

Previous Certificate Winners
2012-2013
Emerson College, First-Year Writing Program
John Jay College of Criminal Justice, First-Year Composition Program
Oakland University, Department of Writing and Rhetoric
Pennsylvania State University, Rhetoric and Writing Program
University of California, Santa Barbara, Writing Program
University of Central Florida, First-Year Composition Program
University of Colorado, Boulder, McNeill Writing Program
2011-2012
Appalachian State University, Vertical Writing Curriculum
Montclair State University, First-Year Writing Program
St. Louis Community College, ESL Program
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Undergraduate Rhetoric Program
University of South Florida, First-Year Writing Composition Program
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Writing Program
The University of Texas at El Paso, First-Year Composition
2010-2011
Binghamton University, State University of New York, First-Year Writing
University of Connecticut, University Writing Center
Wheaton College, Writing Across the Curriculum Program
2009-2010
Louisiana State University, Communication across the Curriculum Program
2008–2009
North Carolina State University, First-Year Writing Program
University of Massachusetts Amherst, Writing Program
Washington State University, Writing Program

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 269

269

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
writingprogramcert

CCCC TRIBAL COLLEGE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP
In March 2003, the Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC)
initiated a new program, the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Program. The Tribal
College Faculty Fellowship offers financial aid to selected faculty members currently
working at tribally controlled colleges to attend the CCCC Conference.  This year
we will be awarding up to four Tribal College Faculty Fellowships in the amount of
$750 each. With this Fellowship, CCCC hopes to create new opportunities for Tribal
College Faculty members to become involved in CCCC and for CCCC to carry out
its mission of serving as a truly representative national advocate for language and
literacy education. Applicants are asked to submit a letter describing who they are as
teachers and what they teach at their tribal college, what their research interests are,
and what they hope to gain from the experience of attending CCCC (how it could
help in their teaching or research). A selection committee including American Indian
Caucus members reviews applications for the Tribal College Faculty Fellowship.
Fellowships are awarded based on overall quality of the application letter.

Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Angela Haas, Illinois State University, Normal
Lisa King, University of Tennessee-Knoxville
Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH

Previous Award Winners
2013	
2012 	
2011	
2010	
2009	

Ahmed Al-Asfour, Jon Kohn
Kate Bertin, Jeanne Sokolowski
Eric Jurgens
Christie Cooke, Jennifer Ann Owens
Sara Knight, Ryan Winn

For a listing of winners prior to 2009, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/
tribalcollegefellow

CCCC advancement of knowledge award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances writing studies.

270

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 270

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

Advancement of Knowledge Committee
Chair: 	 Patricia Dunn, Stony Brook University, NY
		
Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
		
Kelly Pender, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg

Previous Award Winners
2013	
2012	

Patrick W. Berry, Gail E. Hawisher, and Cynthia L. Selfe, Transnational
Literate Lives in Digital Times
Mya Poe, Neal Lerner, and Jennifer Craig, Learning to Communicate in
Science and Engineering: Case Studies from MIT

CCCC research impact award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances the mission of the organization
or the needs of the profession.

Research Impact Committee
Chair: 	 Paul Prior, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
		
Christina Haas, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
		
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA

Previous Award Winners
2013 	
2012 	

Patrick W. Berry, Gail E. Hawisher, and Cynthia L. Selfe, Transnational
Literate Lives in Digital Times
Christopher Schroeder, Diverse by Design: Literacy Education in Multicultural Institutions

CCCC luiz antonio marcuschi travel awards
Established in 2011, this award provides two $1,000 travel reimbursement awards to
scholars from Mexico, Central, or South America who have papers accepted for presentation at the CCCC Convention. Selection of the winners is made by the CCCC
Program Chair and a panel of judges selected from the Stage II program reviewers.

Previous Award Winners
2013	
2012 	

Not awarded
Federico Navarro, Désirée Motta Roth

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 271

271

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC Gloria anzaldúa rhetorician award
Established in 2013, this award supports graduate students or first-time presenters
whose work participates in the making of meaning out of sexual and gender minority
experiences with up to three $750 awards for travel to the CCCC Convention.

Gloria Anzaldúa Rhetorician Award—2014 Recipients
Kendall Gerdes, The University of Texas at Austin
Jessica Mason McFadden, Western Illinois University
Neil Simpkins, University of Wisconsin-Madison

Gloria Anzaldúa Rhetorician Award Committee
Chair: 	 Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Subcommittee Chair: Martha Marinara, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, West Lafayette
Brandon Fralix, Bloomfield College, NJ
Kenton Wilcox, Northwest Missouri State University, Maryville

cccc lavender rhetorics award for
excellence in queer scholarship
Established in 2013, this award is presented annually to three works (one book, one
article, and one dissertation) published within the past two years that best make queer
interventions into the study of composition and rhetoric.

Lavender Rhetorics Award for Excellence in Queer Scholarship
Committee
Chair: 	 Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine

Article Award Subcommittee
Subcommittee Chair: Debra Frank Dew, Valparaiso University, IN
Garret Nichols, Bellevue College, WA
T. J. Geiger, Syracuse University, NY

Dissertation Award Subcommittee
Subcommittee Chair: Jacqueline Rhodes, California State University, San Bernardino
Harry Denny, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Michelle Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman

272

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 272

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

cccc stonewall service award
Established in 2013, this award recognizes members of CCCC/NCTE who have consistently worked to improve the experiences of sexual and gender minorities within
the organization and the profession.

Stonewall Service Award Committee
Chair: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Subcommittee Chair: Holly Middleton, High Point University, NC
Harriet Malinowitz, Long Island University, NY
David Wallace, California State University, Long Beach

THE MARK REYNOLDS TETYC BEST ARTICLE
award
The quarterly journal Teaching English in the Two-Year College selects each calendar year one article for its Best Article of the Year Award. Selection is based on
excellence in five areas: content, style, development/organization, value to readers,
and overall impression. For more information, please visit: http://www.ncte.org/tyca/
awards/tetycaward.

Best Article Award Committee
Chair: 	
	 	
	 	
		

Gregory Shafer, Mott Community College, Flint, MI
Jill Kronstadt, Montgomery College, Germantown, MD
Justin Jory, Manitou Springs, CO
Teresa Thonney, Columbia Basin College, Pasco, WA

Previous Award Winners
2013	
2012	
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	

Diana Lin Awad Scrocco
Patrick Sullivan
Ann Del Principe
Holly Hassel and Joanne Baird Giordano
David Martins
Gregory Shafer

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 273

273

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

nell ann pickett service award
Presented by the Two-Year College English Association to an outstanding teacher
whose vision and voice have had a major impact on two-year college professionalism. For more information, please visit: http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/pickett.

Nell Ann Pickett Service Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
	 	
		

Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Shelley Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Justin Jory, Manitou Springs, CO
Teresa Thonney, Columbia Basin College, Pasco, WA

Previous Award Winners
2013	
2012	
2011	
2010	
2009	
2008	

Marilyn Valentino, Loraine County Community College, Elyria, OH
Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, PA
Patrick Sullivan, Manchester Community College, CT
Mike Matthews, Tarrant County College/NW Campus, Fort Worth, TX
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, WA
Judith "Jay" Wootten, Kent State University, Salem Campus, Salem, OH

274

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 274

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG.01	 American Indian Caucus
	
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

	Co-Chairs: Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
	
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, MA
	
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania

FSIG.02	 Asian/Asian American Caucus
	
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

	Co-Chairs: K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University, PA
	
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, East Lansing

FSIG.03	 Black Caucus
	
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

	Co-Chairs: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
	
David Kirkland, Michigan State University, East Lansing

FSIG.04	 Latino Caucus
	
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

	Co-Chairs: Bobbi Houtchens, San Bernardino, CA
	
Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University, College Station
	
Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge
	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

FSIG.05	 Queer Caucus
	
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

	Co-Chairs: Garrett Nichols, Texas A&M University, Seattle, WA
	
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA
	

Information Technologies

FSIG.06	 Best Practices in Online Writing Instruction: Using
the CCCC OWI Principles and Effective Practices as a
Foundation for Programmatic Arguments
	
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
	
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 275

275

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.07	 CCCC Graduate Student SIG
	
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Adam Strantz, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
	
Lavinia Hirsu, Indiana University, Bloomington
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

FSIG.08	 Creative Nonfiction Special Interest Group: Opening to
Each Other: Mentoring and Creative Nonfiction
	
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA
	
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA
	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.09	 Independent Writing Units
	
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Tempe
	
Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
	
Leslie Werden, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA
	

Creative Writing

FSIG.10	 Intersections in Creative Writing and Composition
	
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Benjamin Miller, City University of New York Graduate
Center, Bronx, NY
	
Ben Ristow, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, Ithaca, NY
	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.11	 Labor Caucus Special Interest Group
	
JW Marriott, Room 107, Second Floor

	Co-Chairs: Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
	
Vandana Gavaskar, Elizabeth City State University, Virginia Beach, VA
	
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
	
Cathy Spidell, The University of Akron, OH
	
Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
	
Jes Hodgson, University of Missouri-Columbia

276

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 276

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Writing Programs

FSIG.12	 Meeting of the International Network of Writingacross-the-Curriculum Programs
	
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor
	Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis
	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

FSIG.13	 Play and Game Studies
	
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

	Co-Chairs: Danielle Roach, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
	
Kevin Moberly, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
	

Community, Civic & Public

FSIG.14	 Rhetoric and Religious Traditions
	
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

	Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI
	

Professional and Technical Writing

FSIG.15	 Science and Writing
	
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

	Co-Chairs: William FitzGerald, Rutgers Camden, NJ
	
Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University, Columbus
	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.16	 English Education-Composition Connections
	
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

	Co-Chairs: Ken Lindblom, Stony Brook University, NY
	
Elizabeth Brockman, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant
	
Mark Letcher, Purdue University-Calumet, IN
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

FSIG.17	 Special Interest Group on Composition and Adult
Learners (Formerly Teaching Adult Learners in Diverse
Settings)
	
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

	Chair: Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota, Saint
Paul

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 277

277

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Writing Programs

FSIG.18	 Undergraduate Research in Rhetoric and Composition
	
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor
	Chair: Michael Zerbe, York College of Pennsylvania
	

Writing Programs

FSIG.19	 Studio Special Interest Group
	
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

	Chair: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC
	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.20	 The Future of Writing Centers in a Time of Open
Educational Transformation: A Special Interest
Group Meeting of the International Writing Centers
Association
	
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

	Chair: Kevin Dvorak, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale,
FL
	

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

FSIG.21	 Transnational Composition Special Interest Group
	
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
	Chair: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, KY
	

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

FSIG.22	 Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy Special Interest
Group
	
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor
	Co-Chairs: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga
	
William Thelin, University of Akron, OH
	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.23	 Writing with Current, Former, and Future Members of
the Military
	
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor
	Chair: D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College, Lexington, VA

278

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 278

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

Institutional and Professional

FSIG.24 Publishing in Studies in Writing and Rhetoric: To All—
Whatever Your Institutional Affiliation—Who Are Interested
	
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor
	Co-Chairs: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman
	
Robin Gosser, Auburn University, AL

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 279

279

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Friday, 6:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.


L.15	

Writing in Virtual, Material, and Mobile Spaces:
Three Studies of Composing with Technology
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair:
Stacey Pigg
University of Central Florida, Orlando

Speakers:
Stacey Pigg
University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Student-Driven Collaboration and the
Social/Spatial Burden of Mobile Learning"
Jacob Stewart
University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Mapping Virtual Spaces: Google and
Affordances for Arrangement of Websites"
Michael Faris
University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire, "Coffee Shop Dissertators: Mobilities,
Writing, and Place"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 291

291

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Academic Writing

L.01	 Learning and Teaching: Advancing the Way You Write
JW Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, State University of
New York, NY
Speakers: Tana Wojczuk, Columbia University, New York, NY, "Teaching
Doubt—Beginning Research with an Open Mind"
Wendy Grosskopf, The University of Rhode Island, Kingston, "An Examination of Stasis in Undergraduate Argumentation and Composition Textbooks"
Keith Lloyd, Kent State University, OH, "Inter-Disciplinary Open Sources:
Remapping Composition in the Light of India(n) and Multivalent Reasoning"
Luke Redington, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "Stephen Toulmin
as an Open Source: Revisiting Our Discipline’s Appropriation of the
Theory of the Warrant"
Academic Writing

L.02	 Online Eloquence in Open Forums: College Composition
as Persuasive Public Writing
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor
Chair: Joseph Janangelo, Loyola University, Chicago, IL
Speakers: John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington
Joseph Janangelo, Loyola University, Chicago, IL
Sherrie Weller, Loyola University. Chicago, IL
Respondent: Christine Farris, Indiana University, Bloomington
Academic Writing

L.03	 Transfer and Transformation: Open Access via Threshold
Concepts
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Kenna Barrett, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
J. Michael Rifenburg, University of North Georgia, Gainesville
Andrew Ogilvie, Marymount College, Santa Monica, CA
Irene Clark, California State University, Northridge, "Genre Awareness,
Threshold Concepts, and Open Access"

292

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 292

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Basic Writing

L.04	 Improving At-Risk Student Learning and Retention:
A Basic Writing Curriculum Redesign
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: Dana Driscoll, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Cathy Rorai, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Creating
Help-Seeking Behaviors in Basic Writing Students"
Lori Alden Ostergaard, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Developing
Basic Writing Students’ Metacognitive Abilities to Improve Transfer of
Learning"
Amanda Laudig, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Fostering the Eight
Habits of Mind Essential for Success in College Writing"
Basic Writing

L.05	 Teachers and Scholars of Basic Writing: Renewed
Debates over Policy and Practices
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Elizabeth Hollis, Haralson County High School, Tallapoosa, GA,
"The Writing Proteus: Opening the Door to a New Definition of Writing
Instruction, Assessment, and Understanding"
Kerry Lane, Joliet Junior College, IL, "What Does Hegel’s Dialectic Have
To Do with Basic Writing?"
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, CA, "The Future(s) of
Open Access: Basic Writing, Educational Policy, and the Debate Over
College Remediation"
Community, Civic & Public

L.06	 Behind the Walls: Prison, Pedagogy, and Politics
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Abigail Scheg, Elizabeth City State University, NC
Speakers: Chris Earle, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Rhetorical Education and (In)Ethical Arguments: Responding to the Call of the Incarcerated Other"
Maggie Kainulainen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Practicing Openness in Prison Education: A Collaborative Inquiry into Empathic Pedagogy and the Politics of Compassion in Writing Center Practice"
Judith Harris, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, "Opening Access
and Futures by Learning Sewing,Catering, and Co-op Literacies: Developing a Social Co-op for Aboriginal Women Transitioning from Prison"
Jaqueline McLeod Rogers, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada,
"Opening Access and Futures by Learning Sewing,Catering, and Co-op
Literacies: Developing a Social Co-op for Aboriginal Women Transitioning from Prison"
CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 293

293

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

L.07	 Contemporary Perspectives on Literacy Sponsorship:
Communities, Fantasies, and Self
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor

Chair: Sundy Louise Watanabe, University of Utah, Salt Lake Ciry
Speakers: Paula Rosinski, Elon University, NC, "Accessing Rhetorical
Knowledge: Student Transfer of Writing Strategies between Self-Sponsored Digital Writing and Academic Writing"
Stacy Kastner, Mississippi State University, MS, "’The Sweetest Rum’:
NaNoWriMo as Market-Driven Fantasy and Subsequent/Simultaneous
Sponsor of Writer Identity"
Collette Caton, Rochester Institute of Technology, NY, "This Is How We
Roll: Women’s Roller Derby Communities as Literacy Sponsors"
Community, Civic & Public

L.08	 Janusian Thinking: Swirling Contradictions in Literacy
Projects
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Katie Silvester, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Negotiating
Pathways, Designing Dreams: Community Literacy and Access for
Transnational Newcomers"
Brad Jacobson, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Access to Third Space:
Adult Learners and Community Literacy Practitioners Meet Digital Storytelling"
Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Janusian Thinking: Swirling Contradictions in Literacy Projects"
Anne-Marie Hall, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Open to Change? How
About Rupturing Some Literacy Myths?"
Community, Civic & Public

L.09	 Perspectives on Militarism and the Composition
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Jason DePolo, North Carolina A&T State University, Greensboro
Speakers: Catherine St. Pierre, The Ohio State University, Columbus and
Coastal Carolina Community College, NC, "Military Service and Literacy Sponsoring"
Mitzi Jones, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith, "From the Combat Zone to
the Contact Zone: Working with Returning Veterans in the Classroom"
Paul Morris, Pittsburg State University, KS, "Writing Ourselves Whole:
What a Recovering Alcoholic Can Teach Veterans about Writing Groups"

294

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 294

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Community, Civic & Public

L.10	 Writing for Readiness: Opening Access to College
through Multilevel Writing Partnerships between
University and Non-University Spaces
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor

Chair: Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College, CT
Speakers: Michal Reznizki, University of California, Davis, "Writing Partners and the Bridge between High School and College Writing"
Jennifer Penaflorida, Berryville High School, AR, "Creating Community: A
College/Career Readiness CAPstone Project for Secondary Level"
Chase Bollig, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "’Young Scholars’:
Accessing the University through Enrollment Outreach"
Creative Writing

L.11	 Poetry and Fiction Off the Page: Multimodal Approaches
in the Creative Writing Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Hannah Rule, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Tessa Mellas, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Matt McBride, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Ruth Williams, William Jewell College, Kansas City, MO
History

L.12	 Encountering Places and Countering Spaces:
Open-Source Rhetoric in the Civil Rights Movement
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor
Chair: Stephen Schneider, University of Louisville, KY
Speakers: Harley Ferris, University of Louisville, KY
Hannah Harrison, University of Texas at Austin
Erin Chandler, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 295

295

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

History

L.13	 Radical Pedagogy across Historical and Contemporary
Contexts
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: G. Travis Adams, University of Nebraska at Omaha
Speakers: Tim Johnson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "John R. Commons and the Economic-Organizational Rhetoric of Progressive Education"
Elizabeth Ellis, University of Maryland, Washington, DC, "‘The T. J. Sellers Course For Backward Southern Whites’: Genre and Civil Rights Era
Rhetorical History and Education"
Samantha NeCamp, Midway College, Georgetown, KY, "The Effects of
Immigration Policy on Literacy Education"
Brandy Scalise, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Uniting the Tongue
and the Heart: Emma Curtis Hopkins’ Radical Pedagogy of the Spirit"
Information Technologies

L.14	 POOC and Learn: Using Personal Learning Networks
(PLNs) for Enhanced Personal Online Learning
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, City University of New
York
Speakers: Daniel Schafer, McDaniel College, Westminster, MD, "Taking
the POOC to Service Learning"
Paul Muhlhauser, McDaniel College, Westminster, MD, "POOCing Around
and Expertising"
Kelly Bradbury, College of Staten Island, City University of New York,
"Personal Learning Networks and Intellectualism: Ideologies, Pedagogies, Technologies"
Institutional and Professional

L.17	 Negotiating Access: Teacher/Student Mediations in the
First-Year Writing Program
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Shannon Madden, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Jerry Stinnett, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Access as
Quality Assurance: Teacher/Student Mediations and Surplus Labor Value in the Corporate University"
Sandra Tarabochia, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "WPA as Mediator:
Communicative Practices for Negotiating Teacher/Student Conflict"
Christopher Carter, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "A Dialogic Approach to Teacher/Student Conflict: Rhetorical Listening in the FirstYear Composition Office"

296

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 296

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Institutional and Professional

L.18	 The University and Economic Pressures: Contingent
Labor and Institutional Models
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Speakers: Donna Dunbar-Odom, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "‘A
Number in Search of a Model’: Access and the $10K Degree in Texas"
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Teaching Writing, ‘Dwelling Work,’ and the Future of Higher Education in a For-Profit World"
Lucas Johnson, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Promoting Difference to
Our Own Deficit: Mina Shaughnessy, the Student-Centered Classroom,
and Adjunct Pedagogy"
Scott Campbell, University of Connecticut, Hartford, "Contingency Plans
(and Other Adjunct Paradoxes)"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.19	 Getting Close (by Being Open) to Materiality
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Kristin Prins, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Megan McIntyre, University of South Florida, Tampa "#BostonHelp: Dependent Agency and the New Materialists"
Sara DiMaggio, The Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Writing
from the Gut: Public Literacy and the Women’s Health Movement"
Kristin Prins, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "But what does that
mean for us?: Negotiating Agency in an Agential Materialist World"
Rachael Sullivan, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Reasserting ThingPower: Touch Screens and Anti-Materialism"
Respondent: Jamie Skye Bianco, University of Pittsburgh, PA
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

L.20	 Open Access?: A Talking Circle on Contemporary
Marginalization in Composition
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Chair: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Speakers: John Grant, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Universal Design Applied in conjunction with Mutuality to Accommodate Disability"
Patrick Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "The (Com)positioning of Creative Writing"
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Retained but
Marginalized: Academics of Color and Composition Studies"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 297

297

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Language

L.22	 Diversified Design: Exploring Multilingual Responses to a
Flexible Writing Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Susan Miller-Cochran, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Speakers: Susan Miller-Cochran, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Dana Gierdowski, North Carolina State University, Raleigh
Language

L.23	 Politics of Instruction in Linguistically and Culturally
Diverse Classrooms
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair: Elaine M. Jolayemi, Ivy Tech Community College, Indianapolis, IN
Speakers: Heather Robinson, York College/ City University of New York,
"The Ethics and Economics of Grammar Instruction"
Gretchen Cobb, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Opening the Global
Linguistic Landscape: Ways to Expand Teacher Awareness of the Habitus of First-Year Students"
Anne Charity-Hudley, The College of William and Mary, Williamsburg,
VA, "Keeping the Conversation Open: Secondary and College Educator Teams Support for Students as They Transition Sociolinguistically
to College"
Sarah Henderson Lee, Lindenwood University, Saint Charles, MO, "Claiming Their Right to Write: LCD Writers across a Secondary Curriculum"
Language

L.24	 Voices from the Field: Monolingual Teachers in
Multilingual Writing Classrooms
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Debarati Dutta, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Teaching Other People’s Students: Engaging with Multilingual Writers in English-Only Classrooms"
Jan Rieman, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "From Deficiency to
Proficiency: Bringing Multilingual Pedagogy to Life in the Classroom"
Tonya Wertz-Orbaugh, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "This Is All
Well and Good, BUT. . .?"

298

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 298

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Research

L.25	 Are Writers Whistling Vivaldi? Empirical Research on the
Role of Stereotype Threat in First-Year Composition
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Speakers: Jeffrey Goodman, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Carmen Manning, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Alan Benson, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Shevaun Watson, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
Research

L.26	 Negotiating Qualitative Research: Confessions, Anxieties,
and Strategies from the Field
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Chair: Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
Speakers: Leslie Seawright, Texas A&M University at Qatar, College Station
Mysti Rudd, Texas A&M University at Qatar, College Station
Nancy Small, Texas A&M at Qatar, Texas Tech University, College Station
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
Respondent: Kathleen Klompien, California State University Channel Islands, Camarillo
Research

L.27	 Teacher-Centered, Context-Dependent: (Re)Opening FYW
Instructor Conversations on Research Prompts
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Chair: Jacqueline Schiappa, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
Speakers: Jacqueline Schiappa, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
"Initial Focus Group Findings and Implications"
Brigitte Mussack, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, Minneapolis,
"Theorizing the Prompt: Shared Values and Assumptions"
Keith Harms, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "The Prompt as Mediator in Student-Centered Evaluation"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 299

299

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.28	 Beyond Cures and Punishment: (Re)Imaging Plagiarism
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Chair: Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College, OH
Speakers: Ann Biswas, University of Dayton, OH, "How It Feels when
Students Plagiarize: The Emotional Labor and Lives of Writing Teachers
during the Plagiarism Experience"
Jeff Fitzgerald, University of Washington, Tacoma, "Parting Plagiarism
from Plague: Re-Thinking Punitive Reactions towards ‘Impropriety’"
Sara Beam, Rogers State University, Claremore, OK, "Definition Writing,
University Documents, and the Plagiarism Conversation"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.29	 Composites of Composition: Heteroglossia,
Intertextuality, and the Anxiety of the Soliloquy
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Elizabeth Howells, Armstrong Atlantic State University, Savannah,
GA
Speakers: Teresa Winterhalter, Armstrong Atlantic State University, Savannah, GA, "The Writing Instructor as Composite: Daring to Speak in
Nods and Winks"
Rachel Bowser, Georgia Gwinnett College, Atlanta, "Darwin, Debating and
De-Composing"
Elizabeth Howells, Armstrong Atlantic State University, Savannah, GA,
"From Notecards to Evernote, From JStor to Google, from Indirect
Sources to Tinyurls: The Composite Nature of Research in the 21st Century"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.30	 Engaged by Identity: First Year Writers Open Up
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

Chair: Irene Lietz, University of Detroit, Mercy, MI
Speakers: Karyn Sproles, Marietta College, OH, "Bringing Class into
Class"
Michael Madson, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Identity as Composition Pedagogy: Digital Ethnographic Approaches to FYC"
Kacie Kiser, Arizona State University, Tempe, "From Longhorn Country
to the University: One Rural Student’s Negotiation of Identity in FYC"
Irene Lietz, University of Detroit Mercy, MI, "But when do I cross the
street? Roberta’s White Guilt"

300

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 300

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.31	 Media Objects: Horror Films, Archival Film, and Mashups
as Shared Cultural Texts
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Carie King, Taylor University, Upland, IN
Speakers: Anthony Stagliano, University of South Carolina, Columbia
"Temporal Inventions and Encounters with the Archive: New Compositions, Old Materials"
James Creel, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Dis(re)memberment—Using Horror Film to Cope with National Trauma"
Kristen Miller, Tuskegee University, LaGrange, GA, "Monsters, Aliens,
and Terrorists: Pairing Horror Film and Political Ads to Reveal Identification’s Dark Side"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.32	 Opening the Composition Classroom: Multilingual
Writers—Revision and New Feedback
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Speakers: Brandon Whiting, University of Cincinnati, OH, "Opening Up a
Place for L1 Students in L2 Composition Courses"
Thomas Upton, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis,
"Teacher Feedback on ESL Composition: How Accessible Is It?"
Estela Ene, Indiana University Purdue University, Indianapolis, "Teacher
Feedback on ESL Composition: How Accessible Is It?"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.33	 Public Writing in Private Education: Building Community
through Written Discourse
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Jessica Bannon, University of Indianapolis, IN
Speakers: Jessica Bannon, University of Indianapolis, IN
William Dickey, Juniata College, Huntingdon, PA, "‘On the Record’: Creating Community and Controversy through Campus Newspapers"
Hannah Bellwoar, Juniata College, Huntingdon, PA

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 301

301

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

L.34	 The Freshman Interest Group: How Shared Interests
Engage and Inspire Students in First-Year Comp
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

Chair: Jenn Sloggie-Pierce, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Matt Oliver, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Making
Composition an Institutional Priority: Can Composition Courses Related
to Student Interests Increase Student Success and Retention?"
Noah Renn, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Writing outside of
the Classroom: The Outdoor Adventure-Themed Composition Course"
Jenn Sloggie-Pierce, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Reading,
Writing, and Exercise: The Personal Fitness-Themed Composition
Course"
Theory

L.35	 From Print to Digital: Opening Access to the New World
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor

Chair: Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Speakers: Bill Endres, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Opening Futures for New Teachers of Composition: Metaphor and the Nudge of
Video for Re-Envisioning Writing"
Christina Boyles, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "(Re)writing and (Re)
viewing: Using Digital Technology as a Research Tool"
Andrew Rasmussen, Baylor University, Waco, TX, "Mutant and Proud: Exploring the Evolutionary Leap of Digitization"
Theory

L.36	 Pharmacon of Digital Exposure: Bernard Stiegler’s Open
Access Enlightenment
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Amanda Booher, University of Akron, OH
Speakers: Amanda Booher, University of Akron, OH, "Disability, Digitalization, and (un)Enlightenment"
Brandon Strubberg, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, "Tertiary Interiorizations: Gaming as Digital Transindividuation"
Jason Helms, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, "Transparency, Pedagogy, Enlightenment: Stiegler’s Radical Call to Teaching Technology"
Matthew Levy, Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, WA, "Stiegler and
Sloterdijk: Philosophical Engineering vs. Philosophical Attitude"

302

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 302

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Theory

L.37	 Teaching Aristotle’s Rhetoric as Open Source
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom VIII, Third Floor

Chair: Keith Walters, Portland State University, OR
Speakers: David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Contemporary Topoi: Starting Points for 21st-Century Argumentation"
Roger Cherry, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "Teaching Aristotle’s
Notion of Logos"
Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Ethos, Trust, Audience, and
Kairos"
Writing Programs

L.38	 Neither Here nor There: Opening the Story of Writing
Center Labor
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: Jackie Grutsch Mckinney, Ball State University, Muncie, IN
Speakers: Nicole Caswell, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, "Professionalization through Labor: Directing a Secondary Writing Center
within a Boarding School"
Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University, San Marcos, "Laboring for Access (and Money): Directing a Virtual Writing Center in a For-Profit Institution"
Jackie Grutsch McKinney, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Laboring
against Closure: The Contingent Writing Center (Director)"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 303

303

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

M Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Featured Session

M.14 iPad Interfacing in the Composition Classroom:
An Engaged Dialogue
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor
Chair:
Glen Southergill
Clemson University, SC
Speakers:
Jared Colton
Clemson University, SC
Glen Southergill
Clemson University, SC

Discussion Leaders:
Joshua Abboud
University of Kentucky, Lexington


b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 304

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Academic Writing

M.02	 The Opening Landscape of Graduate Student Writing in
and across Disciplines: Using Data to Align Instructional
Practices and Learners’ Needs
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Chair: Karyn Mallett, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Speakers: Terry Zawacki, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Dissertation Writing, Writers, and Supervisors across the Disciplines: A Study
of Expectations, Challenges, and Supports"
Paul Rogers, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Dissertation Writing, Writers, and Supervisors across the Disciplines: A Study of Expectations, Challenges, and Supports"
Sarah Baker, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Dissertation Writing, Writers, and Supervisors across the Disciplines: A Study of Expectations, Challenges, and Supports"
Karyn Mallett, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Internationalizing
Graduate Communication in the Disciplines: An Innovative Approach
for Language and Writing Support"
Anna Habib, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, "Internationalizing
Graduate Communication in the Disciplines: An Innovative Approach
for Language and Writing Support"
Basic Writing

M.03	 A Student-Centered Orientation of Writing Assessment:
Student Self-Efficacy in Assessment and Placement
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Chair: Katrina Miller, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Theresa Walsh, California State University, Sacramento
Katrina Miller, University of Nevada, Reno
Dan Melzer, California State University, Sacramento
Basic Writing

M.04	 Lessons Learned: Fits and Starts as We Try to Throw
Open Those Gates
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Paige Conley, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Christopher C. Lyons, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Deborah Siebert, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Sandy Brusin, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Paige Conley, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 305

305

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Basic Writing

M.05	 Trauma in and beyond the Classroom: Human Rights,
Mutual Aid, and Basic Writing
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor
Chair: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Aaron Kerley, University of Cincinnati, OH
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
Abby Nance, Gardner-Webb University, Boiling Springs, NC
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Dearborn, MI
Community, Civic & Public

M.06	 Closed Public Spaces: Colorblind Writing, Generative
Ethos, and Neoliberal Service Learning
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Chair: Phyllis Ryder, George Washington University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Phyllis Ryder, George Washington University, Washington, DC,
"‘Whom do we serve?’ Global Neoliberalism and Local Service- Learning Partnerships"
Tom Do, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Public Discourse of Colorblind
Racism"
Irene Jagla, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Theorizing Ethos in Public
Writing"
Research,Community, Civic & Public

M.07	 Literacy on a Medical Mission: Healthcare Access
Deliberation and Medical Literacy Sponsorship
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Betsy Hall, Illinois College, Jacksonville
Speakers: L. Elizabeth Mackey, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
"Knowledge Is Power: Medical Literacy and Competing Sponsorships"
Rachel Bloom, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Opening Up Multilingual
Spaces for Research: Sponsoring Transcultural Literacy on a Medical
Mission Trip"
Patrick Thomas, University of Dayton, OH, "’Informed’ Patients, ‘Informed’ Courses of Action: Researching Healthcare Deliberation in Online and Face-to-Face Open Access Spaces"

306

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 306

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

M.08	 Using Rhetorical Ethnography to Study Visual Literacies,	
Affect, and Civic Action
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor

Chair: Candice Rai, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Candice Rai, University of Washington, Seattle, "Private Affects,
Online Publics, and Genres of Civic Participation"
Nadya Pittendrigh, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Dispensing with Language"
Megan Marie Bolinder, Northwest Arkansas Community College, Bentonville, "Rhetorical Ethnography and Visual Literacy: Instructing The Future of (Cell Phone) Documentary"
Creative Writing

M.09	 Health/Care: Writing about Illness, Healing, and
Caregiving
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Speakers: Rex Veeder, St. Cloud State University, MN, "Recovering the
Miracle of Life, Restoring the Miracle of Living"
Ted Fristrom, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, "Better"
Frankie Condon, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, "Writing and
Respite: Palliative Narration and Caregiving"
Ann E. Green, Saint Joseph’s University, Philadelphia, PA, "Life Changes
in an Instant"
Creative Writing

M.10	 Politics of Location: Creatively Writing the Past and
Present
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Speakers: Sara Cooper, University of Houston, TX, "The ACB Collaborative: Tracing the Female Line through the Reclamation of Vernacular
Literacies"
Jana Fornario, Texas State-San Marcos, "Shaping the Story: Adapting a Research Heuristic to Work through Dangers ‘Seen, Unseen, and Unforeseen’ in Creative Writing"
Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, MA, "Writing from Archives: Reclaiming the Past/Re-Imagining the Present"
Mike Sonksen, California State University of Los Angeles, "Urban Composition in the Postmodern Metropolis"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 307

307

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

History

M.11	 Opening Access to Power: Recovering and Retheorizing
Historical Unruly Rhetorics
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, NY
Speakers: Joseph Bartolotta, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque,
"Opening Literacies, Opening Rhetorics: How an Education Program in
a Labor Union Granted and Complicated Access to Its Members"
Nicole Howell, Syracuse University, NY, "Constructing Ethos: Dolores
Huerta and the Formation of Ethos"
Timothy R. Dougherty, Syracuse University, NY, "Lost in TransNation: The
Limits to Constitutive Nationalism in the Fenian Brotherhood"
Respondent: Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington
History

M.12	 Religious Tensions: Silence and Protest in Public Rhetoric
and Educational Spaces
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Speakers: Michael Sobiech, University of Louisville, KY, "The Illegitimacy of Roman Catholic Literacy: Nineteenth-Century Religious Conflicts
and Contemporary Public Education"
Tiffany Kinney, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Screaming Silence:
Identifying the Rhetoric of Ex-Mormon Activist Sonia Johnson"
John Belk, Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Aelia Eudokia:
An Empress Poet’s Contributions to the Rhetorical Tradition"
Lisa Arnold, American University of Beirut, "‘What sort of affair is this?’
Protest Rhetoric at the Syrian Protestant College, 1880–1910"
History

M.13	 The Theme, The Paragraph, and English Language
History: Tapping the Origins of Our Assignments and
Courses to Enrich Current Pedagogy
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Speakers: Alexander Landfair, Columbia University, New York City, NY,
"‘What are paragraphs for?’ A Brief History of Paragraphs"
Matthew Nunes, Ohio University, Athens, "‘Where do our assignments
come from?’: Theme Writing and its Role in the Development of Writing Assignments in Composition Classes"
Justin Sevenker, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "‘What place has old English
philology in our elementary schools?’: Teaching Literacy and the History of English in the Nineteenth-Century U.S. and Today"

308

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 308

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Information Technologies

M.15	 Shifting Selves: Student Identity and Writing in the
Internet Age
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Ashley Evans, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Speakers: Ashley Evans, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Unsuspected Identities and Rhetoric for New Media"
Jenae Cohn, University of California Davis, "A Deleted Generation: Changing Student Identities in Hybrid Composition Courses"
Aaron Ritzenberg, Columbia University, New York, NY, "Self-Fashioning,
Sympathy, and Citizenship in the Digital Age"
Institutional and Professional

M.16	 From Preparation to Praxis: Writing Teacher Education
and the Challenge of Enactment
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Chair: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Speakers: Carolyn Wisniewski, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "From
Reflective Practice to Practical Change: A Proposed Model of Critical
Self-Examination for New Teachers"
Emily Cope, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "Clunky Rhetorical Stuff:
Novice Composition Teachers’ Perceptions and Presentations of Rhetoric"
Kirsten Benson, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, "Knowing and Doing:
How New Writing Teachers Turn Knowledge into Practice"
Institutional and Professional

M.17	 Keeping Rhetoric and Writing in English: Opportunities
and Challenges
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Katherine Mack, University of Colorado, Colorado Springs
Speakers: Katherine Mack, University of Colorado, Colorado Springs
Matthew Abraham, University of Arizona, Tucson
Elizabeth Kalbfleisch, Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 309

309

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

M.18	 Open Access Cross-Disciplinary Writing Programs: A Hub
for the Academy
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor
Chair: Amy Lannin, University of Missouri, Columbia
Speakers: Amy Lannin, University of Missouri, Columbia
Keri Franklin, Missouri State University, Springfield
Bonita Selting, University of Missouri, Columbia
Institutional and Professional

M.19	 To Invoke Is to Define: Examining Invocations of Citizenship in Public Arguments about Post-Secondary Literacy
Education
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor
Chair: Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Amy Wan, Queens College, City University of New York
Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno
Meghan Sweeney, University of Nevada, Reno
Phillip Goodwin, University of Nevada, Reno

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.20	 Bridging the Spheres: Juxtaposing Pedagogies from Four
Public Research Sites
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor
Chair: Lauren Obermark, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Speakers: Lauren Obermark, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Katherine DeLuca, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Elizabeth Brewer, The Ohio State University, Columbus
William C. Kurlinkus, The Ohio State University, Columbus

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.21	 Hearing Language: Opening to New Challenges
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Anne Zanzucchi, University of California, Merced
Speakers: Angela Dionisio, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Jaboatao
dos Guararapes, Brazil, "The Challenges of Writing to and with the Other"
Raymond Oenbring, The College of the Bahamas, Nassau, "College Composition in the English-Speaking Caribbean: First Steps towards a History"
Michelle Comstock, University of Colorado, Denver, "Opening to Sound:
Vibrational Ethics and the Sonic Roots of Language"

310

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 310

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

M.22	 Videocy in the Age of Open Access: The Challenges for
Scholarship
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair: Robert Leston, New York City College of Technology, Brooklyn
Speakers: Robert Leston, New York City College of Technology, Brooklyn,
"Listening Over Speaking"
Sarah Arroyo, California State University, Long Beach, "Getting Over
Voiceover"
Geoffrey Carter, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center, MI,
"Open Access Means Doing More with Video"
Language

M.23	 Language Diversity in Diverse Pedagogical Scenes:
Negotiating Southern, Reservation, and African American
Englishes in the Composition Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Jason Evans, Prairie State College, Chicago Heights, IL
Speakers: Jason Evans, Prairie State College, Chicago Heights, IL, "The
Progressive Pedagogue Considers Educational Self-Determination"
Christie Toth, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Linguistic Diversity in
the Tribal College Composition Classroom: Language Shift, Reservation
Englishes, and Standard English Ideologies"
Sarah Swofford, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Southern Students in
Transition: Language Ideologies, Linguistic Capital, and the Transition
to College Writing"
Language

M.24	 What Can Students and Writing Teachers Learn from a
Careful Linguistic Exploration of Spoken Grammar?
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Harvesting
Spoken Grammar for Writing"
Natalie Gerber, State University of New York, Fredonia, "Getting American
Speech Tunes on the Page"
Tania Kouteva, Heinrich-Heine University, Duesseldorf, Germany, "The
Grammar of Spoken Language: A New Theory"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 311

311

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Research

M.25	 A Second Wave: Metawriting in the Composition
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Nicholaus Baca, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Martha Townsend, University of Missouri, Columbia, "The Effect of Metacognition and Kinesthetic Knowledge on Student-Athletes’
Academic Performance"
Dan Bommarito, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Metawriting: Writingabout-Writing Students Write about Their Writing"
Brent Chappelow, Arizona State University, Tmpe, "Metawriting: Writingabout-Writing Students Write about Their Writing"
Leslie Akst, St. John’s University, Queens, NY, "It’s Not a Writing Class
until Somebody Cries—The Emotional Implications of Critical Pedagogy in the Composition Classroom"
Research

M.26	 Open to Debate: Readiness Theories and Student
Perceptions of Multimodal Composition
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Chair: Bill Martin, Austin Community College, TX
Speakers: Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, NY, "Open to Debate: Research-Based Strategies for Disputing ‘College-Readiness’ in Writing"
Drew Stowe, Clemson University, SC, "Student Perceptions of Multimodal
Composition"
Ann Dean, University of Southern Maine, Portland, "Instructor and Student
Perspectives on Readiness"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.27	 A Complete Part of a Balanced Digital Literacy!: Remix,
Copyright, and Educational Reform in the Composition
Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: Courtney Hickerson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Speakers: Courtney Hickerson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Eric Nelson, Texas State University, San Marcos
Cynthia Brewer, Texas State University, San Marcos

312

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 312

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.28	 Been There, Never Done That; Never Done That, Been
There: The Affordances of Networks for Traditional and
Digital Expression
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor

Chair: Joshua Hilst, Utah Valley University, Orem
Speakers: Amy Tuttle, Texas Christian University, Forth Worth, "A Quest
for Expression: The Expressive Affordances of Video Games"
Joshua Daniel-Wariya, Texas Christian University, Forth Worth, "Rearranging Assessment: The Outcomes of Play"
Joshua Hilst, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Memory of Invention: An Untimely Theory of Rhetorical Memory"
Mark Pepper, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Re­-Remembering the Depth
of Your Topic: Episodic Memory and the Neuroscience of the Research
Paper"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.30	 Corrective Feedback in Second Language Writing: Beliefs
and Practices of a Novice Teacher
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor
Chair: Luciana Junqueira Findlay, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Caroline Payant, University of Idaho, Moscow
Luciana Junqueira Findlay, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.31	 Imagining New Directions for Directed Self-Placement:
Improving Success for Underprepared Writers
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: April Heaney, University of Wyoming, Laramie
Speakers: Michael Knievel, University of Wyoming, Laramie
Joyce Stewart, University of Wyoming, Laramie
April Heaney, University of Wyoming, Laramie
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.32	 No Ordinary Student: Giving the Competent and
Complacent Access to Excellence
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: Charles Cox, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Kelly Joyner, American University, Washington, DC
Charles Cox, American University, Washington, DC
Lacey Wootton, American University, Washington, DC
Cynthia Bair Van Dam, American University, Washington, DC

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 313

313

2/6/14 10:37 AM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.33	 Opening Writing about Writing Approaches to Identity
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor

Chair: John Whicker, Ohio University, Athens
Speakers: Sarah Einstein, Ohio University, Athens, "Dis/ability and the
Writing about Writing Course"
Michael Johnson, Ohio University, Athens, "Cultural Identity Readings and
Issues of Instruction in the Writing about Writing Course"
Albert Rouzie, Ohio University, Athens, "Incorporating Cultural Identity
Readings into the Writing about Writing Course"
Matthew Vetter, Ohio University, Athens, "Student Responses to Cultural
Identity Readings in the Writing about Writing Course"
Yavanna Brownlee, Ohio University, Athens, "An Integrated Identity Pedagogy for Writing about Writing"
Respondent: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

M.35	 This Ain’t Your Father’s Formalism: The "Neo-Formalist"
Approach to Reading and Research Assignments
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Chair: Edward Comstock, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Alex Hodges, American University, Washington, DC, "The Practice of Information Literacy Instruction: Connecting Pedagogy to the
Lenses"
Edward Comstock, American University, Washington, DC, "Foucault’s
Kairos and the Rhetorical Subject"
Alison Thomas, American University, Washington, DC, "The ‘Taking an
Approach’ Approach: Assignments that Rethink Reading and Research"
Theory

M.36	 In and Out of the Discipline: Extracurricular Effects on
Composition
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Speakers: Joseph P. Weakland, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Augmented Realities: Composition Studies and Speculative Technogenesis"
Anna Rita Napoleone, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Class Affect in Teaching Associates’ Narratives: Affective Relations to Classed
Discourses"
Ryan Skinnell, University of North Texas, Denton, "Revisiting Historical
Methodologies: Macro-, Micro-, and Genitive Histories"

314

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 314

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Theory

M.37	 Queer, Slut, and Straight Rhetoric: Opening Up Gendered
Language
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA
Speakers: Jean Bessette, University of Vermont, Burlington, "‘Straight’
Feminism vs. the Lavender Herring: Exploring Rhetorical Constructions
of Heteronormativity"
Gae Lyn Henderson, Utah Valley University, Orem, "Implications of Transgender Identity: Dysphoria in Regulated Health Care and Education"
Laurie McMillan, Marywood University, Scranton, PA, "Defining ‘Sluts’:
Limbaugh and the Reformed Whores"
Writing Programs

M.38	 Camping in the Disciplines: The Theory, Practice, and
Assessment of Multidisciplinary Graduate Writing Camps
JW Marriott, Room 207, Second Floor

Chair: Matthew Capdevielle, University of Notre Dame, IN
Speakers: Kara Donnelly, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Graduate Students as Writers: The Effect of Writing Camps on Strategies, Attitudes,
and Self-Efficacy"
Matthew Capdevielle, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Why Camp?: Theoretical Foundations of Graduate Level Writing Camps"
Gretchen Busl, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Measuring Impact: An Institution-Wide Analysis of Graduate Writing Camps"
Writing Programs

M.39	 The Student Writing Group Project
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor

Chair: Harriet Malinowitz, Long Island University-Brooklyn
Speakers: Janina Perez, Long Island University-Brooklyn
Micah Savaglio, Long Island University-Brooklyn
Tiani Kennedy, Long Island University-Brooklyn
Harriet Malinowitz, Long Island University-Brooklyn

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 315

315

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

N Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
Academic Writing

N.01	 Empirical Studies of Academic Writing
JW, Marriott, Room 101, First Floor

Chair: Kathryn Byrne, Johnson County Community College
Speakers: Roger Graves, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada, "Genre
by Numbers: A Data-Driven Description of Academic Discourse"
Jessica Calhoun, California State University, Long Beach,"Bridging Identity Gaps: Understanding How Students Navigate Writing across the
Disciplines"
Academic Writing

N.02	 Toward a Rhetorical Literacy Narrative: Re-Opening a
Dead Genre
JW Marriott, Room 102, First Floor

Chair: Angela Sowa, University of Denver, CO
Speakers: L.P. Picard, University of Denver, CO, "Write as I Say, Not as I
Do"
David Daniels, University of Denver, CO, "Why Students Can’t Write
(about Themselves)"
Rodney Herring, University of Denver, CO, "Problematizing the Literacy
Narrative as an Assignment"
Basic Writing

N.03	 "Basic Writers," "College Writers," and the Open Gate:
Accelerated English and First-Year Composition
JW Marriott, Room 103, First Floor

Chair: Michael Kuhne, Minneapolis Community and Technical College,
MN
Speakers: Darren Wieland, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN, "Accelerated English and Assessment"
Jane Leach, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN, "Interactional Inquiry in a Faculty Blog: Asking Questions and Finding Answers
in an Evolving Accelerated English Pedagogy"
Michael Kuhne, Minneapolis Community and Technical College, MN,
"Errors and Expectations—How Accelerated English Challenges Basic
Writing Assumptions"

316

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 316

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Basic Writing

N.04	 Reopening Futures: Empowering Basic Writers through a	
Writing Fellow Program
JW Marriott, Room 105, First Floor
Speakers: Angela Schaefer, Shippensburg University, PA
Laura Kownacki, Shippensburg University, PA
Nicole Koenig, Shippensburg University, PA
Jessica Johnson, Shippensburg University, PA
Abigail Brumback, Shippensburg University, PA
Sheila Sidelilnger, Shippensburg University, PA
Karen Johnson, Shippensburg University, PA
Community, Civic & Public

N.05	 Accessing Place: Exploring Participation Structures
across Three Communities
JW Marriott, Room 106, First Floor

Chair: Allison Reynolds, University of Florida, Gainesville
Speakers: Elizabeth Savoy, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Power, Partnerships, and Failure: Lessons from a Community-Based Writing Project"
Ruben Casas, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "The Town I Live In: Alternative Access, Alternative Futures"
Jason Peters, University of Rhode Island, Providence, "Tierra Contaminada: Contaminated Ground and Access to Place"
Theory

N.06	 Communicating/Imaging Bodies
JW Marriott, Room 107, First Floor

Speakers: Angela Laflen, Marist College, Poughkeepsie, NY, "The Rhetoric of Risk in Body Imaging Discourse"
Susan Sample, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Dying Bodies as Kairotic Sites for Suturing Rhetorical Theories of Silence and Material
Rhetoric"
Jessica Eberhard, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg, "Complex
Networks, but Closed Systems: Medical Communication and Material
Ethics"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 317

317

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Community, Civic & Public

N.07	 Implementing, Framing, and Connecting
Cross-Institutional Assessment Strategies of
Applied Literacy Outreach
JW Marriott, Room 206, Second Floor

Chair: David Marquard, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Speakers: Teagan Decker, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Scott Hicks, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke
David Marquard, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Community, Civic & Public

N.08	 Smoothing Over Scientific Uncertainties: Edutainment
Access; and Rhetorics of Identity and Science
JW Marriott, Room 301, Third Floor

Chair: Timothy Oleksiak, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
Speakers: Todd Snyder, Siena College, Loudonville, NY, "Spatial Rhetorics of Identity: Hip-Hop’s Impact on Working-Class Appalachian College Students"
Carol Reeves, Butler University, Indianapolis, IN, "I’m Gonna Spit a
Rhyme: African American Rhetoric of Science and the Atrazine War"
Stacey Snyder, University of West Georgia, Carrollton, "Edutaining Research Assignments"
Community, Civic & Public

N.09	 Virtuous Enactments: Reclaiming a Discourse for
Composition Studies
JW Marriott, Room 104, First Floor

Chair: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, IN
Speakers: Lisa Zimmerelli, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore, "Centering Virtue: A Service-Learning Writing Center Model"
Asao Inoue, California State University, Fresno, "A Pedagogy of Compassion: Teaching Writing as Labors in the Service of Others"
John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, IN, "Reclaiming Virtue: A Discourse for Composition Studies"
Respondent: Paul Minifee, San Diego State University, CA

318

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 318

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Creative Writing

N.10	 Perspectives on the Use of Creative Nonfiction in the
Teaching of Writing
JW Marriott, Room 302, Third Floor

Speakers: Thomas Allbaugh, Azusa Pacific University, CA, "Opening to
the Creative and Professional: Deepening a Writing in the Disciplines
Course for Teachers through Autobiography"
Laura Tetreault, University of Louisville, KY, "Rethinking Creative Nonfiction as Alternative Intellectual Inquiry"
Crystal Fodrey, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Open to Invention: Locating Dominant Ideologies in Creative Nonfiction Pedagogical Discourse"
History

N.11	 19th and 20th Century Sites as New Lenses on
Disciplinary Service, Ecology, and Collaboration
JW Marriott, Room 303, Third Floor

Chair: Linh Dich, Miami University, Middletown, OH
Speakers: Katherine Fredlund, Indiana State University, Bloomington,
"Open Archives: Learning About Collaboration from Historical Practices"
David Hudson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Unsettling Composition’s Ethos of Service at Chicago’s Firman House"
Nathan Shepley, University of Houston, TX, "Beyond College and Composition: Ecologizing Composition’s Early Twentieth-Century History in
One Urban Location"
History

N.12	 Open Table: A Dialogue on the Historical Significance of
Three Chicago Women Rhetors
JW Marriott, Room 304, Third Floor

Chair: Bridget O’Rourke, Elmhurst College, IL
Speakers: Lanette Grate, University of Central Arkansas, Conway, "Jane
Addams: Futuristic Visions and Shifting Rhetorical Paradigms"
Bridget O’Rourke, Elmhurst College, IL, "‘I Came a Stranger:’	
Hull-House and the Construction of Rhetorical Citizenship"
Julie Bokser, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, "‘Gracefully and Delicately
Veiled’: The Rhetoric of Bertha Palmer"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 319

319

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

History

N.13	 Rewriting Histories and Institutional Practices
JW Marriott, Room 202, Second Floor

Chair: Susan Carlton, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: John Logie, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, "Open and
Shut: A Critical Genealogy of NCTE’s Publication Policies"
Lance Cummings, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "The Archival Interface: Exploring Usability in Public Archives"
Elizabeth Vogel, Arcadia University, Glenside, PA, "Cracking Open WAC:
Using Memory, Mapping, and Archival Research to Re-Imagine WAC’s
History"
Rachel Collins, Arcadia University, Glenside, PA, "Cracking Open WAC:
Using Memory, Mapping, and Archival Research to Re-Imagine WAC’s
History"
Information Technologies

N.14	 Women’s Languages and Representations
JW Marriott, Room 108, First Floor

Chair: Simone Billings, Santa Clara University, CA
Speakers: Cristy Beemer, University of New Hampshire, Durham, "Virtual
Hugs and Pocket Pals: The Language of Online Breast Cancer Support"
Sarah Moseley, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA, "Remembering
Women Firefighters: The Impact of Historical Representation on the Fire
Department’s Future"
Information Technologies

N.15	 Keeping an Open Mind about Open SUNY: Believing and
Doubting SUNY’s Online Learning Initiative
JW Marriott, Room 203, Second Floor

Chair: Cynthia Eaton, Suffolk County Community College, Selden, NY
Speakers: Cynthia Eaton, Suffolk County Community College, Selden, NY
Tina Good, Suffolk County Community College, Selden, NY
Leanne Warshauer, Suffolk County Community College, Selden, NY

320

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 320

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Information Technologies

N.16	 Transformational Ownership: Creating and Navigating
Ownership in the Design of a Departmental Online
Composition Course
JW Marriott, Room 109, First Floor
Chair: Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Salt Lake City
Speakers: Jamie Littlefield, Utah Valley University, Orem, UT
Deborah Marrott, Utah Valley University, Orem
Scott Manning, Utah Valley University, Orem
Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Salt Lake City
Institutional and Professional

N.17	 FYC: Student Placement, Voices, and Choices
JW Marriott, Room 305, Third Floor

Chair: Sharon Burns, Clermont College, University of Cincinnati, OH
Speakers: Susan North, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, "Open
Choices/Appropriate Choices:Refining Directed Self-Placement"
Virginia Anderson, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany, "’The
Teacher Will Show Me How’: Student Hopes, Teacher Plans, and the
Public Understanding of College Writing Courses"
Tim Taylor, Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, "Chaotic Data and
Wicked Problems—A WPA In Search of a Placement Method"
Megan O’Neill, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, "Opening Avenues of Collaboration: New Convergences of First-Year Composition and First-Year
Experiences"
Institutional and Professional

N.18	 Making Our Teaching Practices and Campuses Open and
Accessible
JW Marriott, Room 306, Third Floor

Speakers: Andrew Lucchesi, Graduate Center, City University of New
York, NY, "Disability Services Providers and Writing Program Administrators: Forging New Partnerships to Foster Programmatic Access"
Bryna Siegel Finer, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Opening our File
Drawers: An Argument for Transparency in Writing Program Administration"
Lauren Hall, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "Opening Evaluating Teaching:
The Debate on Publishing Course Evaluations"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 321

321

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Institutional and Professional

N.19	 Open to Possibilities: Institutional Identity and the
Non-Tenure Track Writing Professor
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom IV, Third Floor

Chair: David Tomkins, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: David Tomkins, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Curriculum Design, Institutional Relevance, and the Non-Tenure Track
Writing Professor"
Indra Mukhopadhyay, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Discovering our Professional Identities: Writing Professor and NTT
Faculty"
James Condon, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "What
Composition Can Teach Us: Disciplinary Struggle as Professional Paradigm"
Institutional and Professional

N.20	 Yet More Legislative Crap to Deal With: Reflecting on
Placement and Public Acts
JW Marriott, Room 308, Third Floor

Chair: Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID
Speakers: Samantha Sturman, Boise State University, ID
Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic
Lauren Rosenberg, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.21	 Crossing Thresholds: Perceptions, Processes, and
Practices
JW Marriott, Room 309, Third Floor

Chair:
Speakers: Jamie White-Farnham, University of Wisconsin-Superior, "Access to Prior Learning Assessment: A Rhetorical Problem for Faculty
and Students"
Liana Odrcic, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "When We Say Composition and Communication: Using SoTL to Examine Writing Students’
Perceptions of ‘the 4th C’ in a Composition Classroom"
Allison Harl, Ferrum College, VA, "Crossing the Thresholds: Writing
Transfer in First-Year Composition"
Amy Zenger, American University of Beirut, Lebanon, "Open to Complex
Expressions of ‘The Local’: Defining Writing Center Practices"

322

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 322

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.22	 Listening to Voice and Body: New Paths to Understanding
Self and Others
JW Marriott, Room 310, Third Floor

Chair: Brenda Refael, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College, OH
Speakers: Kerrie Carsey, York College of Pennsylvania, "Composition and
Communication: Toward an Interdisciplinary Pedagogy"
Heidi Stevenson, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, "Thoughtful
Movement and Embodied Thoughts: Healing the Mind/Body Rupture
with a Yoga/Composition Hybrid Course"
Airlie Rose, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "When Voice Is Not a
Metaphor"
Interdisciplinary, Multidisciplinary, and Cross-Contextual Perspectives

N.23	 What Are They Teaching in High School?: College
Readiness and Transitions
JW Marriott, Room 311, Third Floor

Chair: Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Lucy Arnold, The University of North Carolina at Charlotte,
"The Power Dynamics of Representation: A Textual Analysis of the Portrayal of Secondary School Teachers in Composition Publications"
Victoria Hollis, Birmingham Education Foundation, AL, "Will Write for
Work: A Case for Composition Relevancy Models regarding At-Risk,
Urban Youth, College-Readiness and Transitional Post-Secondary Programs"
Melissa Dennihy, Nesconset, NY, "’Forget What You Learned in High
School!’: Bridging the Space between High School and College Educators"
Language

N.24	 Opening a Multilingual Writing Space
JW Marriott, Room 204, Second Floor

Chair: Charles Donate, Florida International University, Miami
Speakers: Jeanette Garcia, Florida International University, Miami, "The
Languages of Conferencing and Access to Literacy"
Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, Miami, "Conversations
in Spanglish and Mandarin"
Paula Gillespie, Florida International University, Miami, "The Video Project: Reflections on Multilingual Tutoring"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 323

323

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Language

N.25	 Translingual Histories and Dispositions
JW Marriott, Room 314, Third Floor

Speakers: Fang Yu Liao, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Resisting
Chinese Names: An Analysis of Monaneng‘s Poetic Rhetoric"
Amber Engelson, University of Denver, CO, "Opening Up the First-Year
Research Project: Re-Framing Academic Inquiry as a Local-Global,
Public Endeavor"
Thomas Lavelle, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden, "Translingual
Dispositions: Theorizing Practice to Facilitate Comparative Research"
Libby Anthony, Kutztown University, PA, "Origins of Translingualism and
Discussions about Linguistic Diversity in College English, 1939–1950"
Professional and Technical Writing

N.26	 The Center Outside: Writing Center Pedagogy Adapted
for Business and Technical Consulting
Marriott Downtown, Florida Room, First Floor
Chair: Margaret Ervin, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Jon Wallace, Princeton University, NJ
Emiline Buhler, James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
Margaret Ervin, West Chester University, PA
Research

N.27	 Cultural Expectations, the Institution, and Motherhood
Rhetorics: Examining Links between Professional and
Maternal Identity Construction
Marriott Downtown, Illinois Room, First Floor
Chair: Sarah R. Spangler, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Speakers: Sarah R. Spangler, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Jamie Henthorn, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
April Cobos, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA

324

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 324

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Research

N.28	 Researching Genre across Contexts: Implications for
Crucial Transitions
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom III, Third Floor
Chair: Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis
Kathryn Evans, Bridgewater State University, MA
Brian Larson, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
Lee-Ann Breuch, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.29	 "Beginning again and again": New Media/"Old" Tools,
A Panel Installation
Marriott Downtown, Michigan Room, First Floor

Chair: Erica Kaufman, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, NY
Speakers: Tyler Schmidt, Lehman College, City University of New York,
"When Writing Brakes"
Alice Lesnick, Bryn Mawr College, PA, "Fast and Slow at the Same Time:
Writing in Place as a Class Visits Zagar’s Magic Gardens"
Erica Kaufman, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, NY, "Composition
Gone Digital"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.30	 Clearing the Path Choked with Rabbit Brush: Faith-Based
Identities as Sources for Critical Thought in the
Composition Classroom
Marriott Downtown, Texas Room, First Floor

Chair: Melissa Faulkner, Cedarville University, OH
Speakers: Cynthia Messer, Cedarville University, OH, "Promoting the
Conversation about Religious Identity: Faith-Based Narratives as a
Path—Not Obstruction—to Critical Thought"
Heather Hill, Cedarville University, OH, "Rhetorical Disconnect: Bridging
the Gap between Faith and Composition"
Melissa Faulkner, Cedarville University, OH, "Conversion Stories in the
Metanoic Classroom: Consubstantiating Secular and Sacred Ways of
Knowing"

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 325

325

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.31	 Disrupting the Literacy Narrative Assignment with Code
Meshing and Rival Perspectives
JW Marriott, Room 313, Third Floor

Chair: Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Speakers: Stephanie Thompson, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Bridging ESL and Academic English: Opening Literacy Narratives to Code
Meshing"
Dani Eller, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Rivaling Literacy Narratives: Negotiating a Place for Working-Class Students"
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Dayton, OH, "Repurposing the Literacy Narrative for Marginalized Students: Providing Opportunities for
Critique"
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.32	 Interpretations and Interactions: Creating Opportunities
	
for Critical Reflection on the Social Development of
Language through Literacy Narratives and Literacy Event
Analyses in the Democratic Writing Classroom
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom II, Third Floor
Chair: Karen Shea, Johnson and Wales University, Portsmouth, RI
Speakers: Anicca Cox, North Dartmouth, MA
Karen Shea, Johnson and Wales University, Portsmouth, RI
Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.33	 Professional Creep: Ethics and Economics in Writing
Classes
JW Marriott, Room 205, Second Floor

Chair: Patrick McHugh, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Patrick McHugh, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Ethics and Doubt: Pedagogical Professionalism in Writing Courses"
Olivia Walling, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Qualitative versus
Quantitative Research Methods or the Ethics of Critical Thinking in the
Writing Course"
Randi Browning, University of California, Santa Barbara, "First-Year Writers and Ethical Issues: Opportunities, Challenges, Benefits, and Lessons"

326

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 326

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Teaching Writing & Rhetoric

N.34	 Ruptured Narratives and the Opening of the Composition
Classroom
JW Marriott, Room 312, Third Floor

Speakers: Mary Fratini, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Erin Cromer, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Karen Gocsik, University of California, San Diego, "Liberation from Narrative: Teaching Composition as Mash-Up"
Theory

N.35	 Conversations on Race and Ethnicity in not so Black and
White Genre Mixes
JW Marriott, Room 208, Second Floor

Speakers: Kyle Boggs, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Toward a Discourse on Recreational Colonialism: Spaces of Leisure and Whiteness at
the Arizona Snowbowl Ski Resort"
Michael Dimmick, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Spaces of Radical
Openness: Comic Books, Rhetorical Presence, and African American
Community"
Susan Popham, University of Memphis, TN, "Dismantling the Code: The
Rhetoric of African-American Genre Mixing"
Jeremy Carnes, Ball State University, Muncie, IN, "Conversations on Race
and Ethnicity in the First-Year Composition Classroom"
Theory

N.36	 Never Mind Geoffrey Sirc: A Tribute Panel
Marriott Downtown, Indiana Ballroom E, First Floor

Chair: Jenny Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Speakers: Byron Hawk, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Stomp
Box Logic"
Victor Vitanza, Clemson University, SC, "Forgetting?"
Jeff Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "I am Sirc"
Cynthia Haynes, Clemson University, SC, "Stainlessness, or Fracking
Composition"
Thomas Rickert, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, "The WorkAround: Composition on the Dark Side of the Moog"
Jenny Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Cracked Open: Sirc’s Imperfect Composition"
Respondent: Geoffrey Sirc, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis

CCCC CONVENTION, indianapolis 2014	

b171-335-4Cs-2014.indd 327

327

2/4/14 2:59 PM

Saturday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Theory

N.37	 Re-Claiming "Expressivism": A Critical Conversation
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom I, Third Floor
Co-Chairs: Lizbeth Bryant, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Tara Roeder, St John’s University, Queens, NY
Roundtable Leaders: Lea Povozhaev, Kent State University, OH
Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, SC
Scott Wagar, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Roseanne Gatto, St John’s University, Queens, NY
Maja Wilson, University of Maine, Orono
Derek Owens, St. John’s University, Queens, NY
Patricia Boyd, Arizona State University, Tempe
Dan Collins, Manhattan College, New York, NY
David Seitz, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Writing Programs

N.38	 Changing Demographics: Acknowledging and Respecting
Difference
JW Marriott, Grand Ballroom V, Third Floor
Chair: Daylanne Markwardt, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Speakers: Z. Z. Lehmberg, Northern Michigan University, Marquette,
"Learning from Each Other: Native and Non-Native English Speaking
Students Writing Together"
Emily Kaney, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, "Learning from
Each Other: Native and Non-Native English Speaking Students Writing
Together"
Heidi Rosenberg, George Williams College of Aurora University, Williams
Bay, WI, "Beyond ‘One-Size-Fits All’: Designing an Online Writing Lab
for Non-Traditional Students"
Mandy Macklin, California State University, Northridge, "(Re)Imagining
First-Year Access to English: A Case Study"
