MW.01	Plagiarism as an Educational Opportunity: ResearchBased Responding to Student Plagiarizing
	

This interactive, research-based workshop addresses the complexities of
plagiarism and responding to student plagiarism.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Speakers: Robert Yagelski, SUNY-Albany
Gerald Nelms, Wright State University
Carole Papper, Hofstra University
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University
Valerie Seiling Jacobs, Columbia University
11-Research

MW.02	Voices of Undergraduate Research: Frameworks for
Learning through Action
	

Faculty, administrators, and students will discuss frameworks, engage in
reflection, and access resources for supporting student research.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Speakers: Angela Glotfelter, Miami University of Ohio
Brynn Kairis, Rutgers University-Camden
Jessie Moore, Elon University
Megan Schoettler, Miami University of Ohio
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.03	Multimodal Research in the Writing Class
Teaching Infographics to Help Students Construct
Data-Driven Arguments
	

The basics of infographic design and how to build them into your multimodal research assignments to enhance students’ data-driven arguments.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Speakers: Jamie S. Albert, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College
Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College
Robert Murdock, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College

30

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 30

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

MW.04	Repurposing Assessment: Valuing Student Actions via
Course Contracts
	

An opportunity to explore and begin designing course contracts with experienced teacher-scholars.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Co-Chairs: Rebecca Powell, University of Southern Mississippi,
Hattiesburg
Joyce Inman, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Discussion Leaders: Emily Martin, University of Southern Mississippi,
Hattiesburg
Olivia Bushardt, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Kelli Sellers, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Erin Boade, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Missy Wallace, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Allison Tharp, The University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg
Respondents: Asao Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma
Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill
Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.05	Composing Comics: Theory and Practice for Writing
Teachers
	

Our workshop offers participants an introduction to comics theory and practice with a wide range of applications for the writing classroom.

GRB Room 360AD, Level Three
Speakers: Henry Kirby, Virginia Military Institute
Gabe Sealy-Morris, Johnson C. Smith University
Susan Kirtley, Portland State University
Kathryn Comer, Barry University
Dale Jacobs, University of Windsor
Molly Scanlon, Nova Southeastern University
Hannah Dickinson, Hobart and William Smith Colleges
Steven Engel, Marygrove College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	31

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 31

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

MW.06	Consulting for Writing Programs: Developing Effective
Practices
	

Participants share principles of good practice for consulting work ranging
from curriculum development workshops to formal program review.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Co-Chairs: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University
Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago
Speakers: Duane Roen, Arizona State University, "Figuring the Business
End of Consulting"
Irwin Weiser, Purdue University, "The Rhetorical Art of Consulting, Part
II: The Writing Program Reviewer as Evaluator"
Lil Brannon, University of North Carolina, Charlotte, "Preparing for a
Consultancy: Doing Your Homework then Going with the Flow"
Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago, "Synthesizing,
Clarifying, and Reconciling Presenters’ Perspectives"
Martha Townsend, University of Missouri, "Following Up: When Does
the Consultation End?"
Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, "Making Consulting Work
Visible without Revealing Confidential Information"
Michelle Cox, Cornell University, "The Rhetorical Art of Consulting,
Part I: The Workshop Leader as Advocate"
Carol Rutz, Carleton College, "Attention to Audience: Places to Go and
People to See"
Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, "Welcome and Introductions;
Goal Setting for the Workshop"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.07	Taking Action with Student Retention and Success:
An OWI "Student Matters" Workshop
	

Student guest respondents and a survey ground participant learning and activities about student needs for OWI.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish
Speakers: Lourdes Spurlock, Old Dominion University, "A Student’s
Perspective"
Heidi Harris, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Preparing for an
OWC"
Wendy McCloud, University of Arkansas Little Rock, "A Student’s
Perspective"
Diana Gasiewski, Drexel University, "A Student’s Perspective"
Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish, "Providing Necessary Support
Components for OWCs"

32

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 32

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Jason Snart, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL, "Developing a Working
‘Community’ for OWCs"
Discussion Leaders: Diane Martinez, Western Carolina University
Leslie Olsen, Bellevue University
Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University
Scott Warnock, Drexel University
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.08	Active Support for Radical Pedagogies: The
Postpedagogical Movement, Project-Based,
Multigenre, and Multimodal Approaches
	

This workshop provides support for radical pedagogies, naming, building,
and sustaining the postpedagogical movement in composition.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Co-Chairs: Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Salt Lake City,
"Active Support for Radical Pedagogies: The Postpedagogical
Movement, Project-Based, Multigenre, and Multimodal Approaches"
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, "Active Support for Radical
Pedagogies: The Postpedagogical Movement, Project-Based,
Multigenre, and Multimodal Approaches"
Speakers: Melody Wise, Glenville State College, "Project-Based,
Multimodal Approaches to Improving Literacy in Secondary and
College Classrooms"
Nathalie Virgintino, St. John’s University, "Studio and Art-Based
Pedagogies in the Writing Class Learning through Making"
Robyn Tierney, New Mexico State University, "Moved to Write: Along
Personal and Sociocultural Affective Sites"
Brian Stone, Huston Tillotson University, "Critical Hiphop Rhetoric Pedagogy"
Tara Roeder, St. John’s University, "Jamming the Smooth Operations of
the Normal and the Ordinary: Resisting the Politics of Cohesion"
Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, Salt Lake City, "It Began with
Affection and Took Flight: The Ethical and Political Undercurrent
Supporting Postpedagogical Approaches to Writing"
Matthew Pavesich, Georgetown University, "Make a Thing, We Told Them"
Derek Owens, St. John’s University, "Promoting, Showcasing, Flaunting:
Highlighting the Multimodal Work Being Done by Our Students and
Colleagues"
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, "Academic Identity Formation:
Critical Narratives of Future Identities"
Adam Koehler, Manhattan College, "Finding Unity in Diversity: Toward a
Radical Assessment"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	33

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 33

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Kefaya Diab, New Mexico State University, "Filmmaking as
Transformative Critical Pedagogy: Can We Actually Change the World"
Roseanne Gatto, St. John’s University
Katherine Hanzalik, Clemson University, "Transmedia Activism: A
Post-Pedagogy for Parity"
Rik Hunter, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, "Multimodal
Collaborative Group Work: (Anxious) Active and Social Learning"
Jayne Moneysmith, Kent State University at Stark, "Mentoring
Innovation: Providing and Seeking Mentorship for Radical
Pedagogical Approaches"
Matthew Tougas, Louisiana State University, "Composing Disruption:
Moving from Analysis to Action"
Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University, "Revitalizing and
Reinventing a Composition Program"
Amanda Wray, University of North Carolina, Asheville, "Developing
Rhetorical Frames for Inclusivity: Community Engaged Service in
FYW"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.09	But I Don’t Know What to Say: Peer Review as a Tool to
Help Students Effectively Join the Conversation
	

This workshop will walk participants through four different peer review
models for in-class and online review.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Speakers: Travis Holt, Liberty University, "Text as Image: ‘Seeing’ What
We’re Writing"
Elise Green, Longwood University, "Grillz and Spillz: Using Pop Culture"
Ramona Myers, Liberty University, "Fighting Perceptions of ‘The Blind
Leading the Blind’ Using Stations"
Brian Harrell, University of Akron, "Online Peer Reviewing"
11-Research

MW.10	Basics of Coding: Analyzing Data and Reporting Findings
	

This half-day workshop is designed to help researchers overcome challenges they may encounter when they code language data.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Speakers: Jordan Smith, Iowa State University
Karen Lunsford, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Basics of
Coding: Analyzing Data and Reporting Findings"
Jo Mackiewicz, Iowa State University, "Basics of Coding: Analyzing
Data and Reporting Findings"

34

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 34

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

13-Theory

MW.12	Reading Workshop: Pedagogies, Processes, Purposes,
Practices
	

This workshop explores ways to integrate reading instruction in composition courses.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Kelly Whitney, New Mexico State University
Speakers: Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
Karen Shea, Johnson & Wales University
Mais Al-Khateeb, New Mexico State University
3-Community, Civic & Public

MW.13	Disrupting the Cycle of Mass Incarceration: What Can
Writing Really Do?
	

What sort of action can writing teachers take to disrupt the cycle of mass
incarceration?

GRB Room 360BE, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences
Speakers: Daniel Cleary, Lorain County Community College, "The
Northeast Ohio Community Outreach Project: An Overview"
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, "Restorative Justice
Principles in Action after Incarceration"
Tom Kerr, Ithaca College, "The Rhetorical Challenges of Reenvisioning
Community for Two Writers Long on Death Row: An Editor’s
Perspective"
Rex Veeder, St. Cloud State University, "Stemming the Tide-Interrupting
the Flow of At-Risk Youth to Prisons"
Kathie Klarreich, Exchange for Change, "Reporting to Give Words Wings:
The Intersection of Journalism and Prison Writing Programs"
Barbara Roswell, Goucher College, Towson, "Inviting the Writing
Workshop into the Writing ClassCreative-Academic Hybrids within
and beyond Prison Walls"
Discussion Leaders: Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Kimberly Drake, Scripps College
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	35

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 35

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

MW.14	Critical Soundplay: An Audio Composing Workshop

Come play with digital audio. We’ll practice and discuss recording,
editing, performance, ethics, file formats, and remix.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Speakers: Kyle Stedman, Rockford University, "Remixing Copyrighted
Music"
Steven Hammer, Saint Joseph’s University, "Politics and (mal)Practices of
Compression"
Erin Anderson, University of Massachusetts, "Voice Editing and Ethics"
Trisha Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, "Performing toward Rhetorical
Empathy"
5-History

MW.15	Archives as Sites for Community Collaborations,
Classroom Explorations, and Activism
	

This workshop offers strategies for building community connections
through archives and incorporating archival research in the classroom.

GRB Room 360CF, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College
Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College
Speakers: Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
David Gold, University of Michigan
Jenna Morton-Aiken, University of Rhode Island
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, CUNY
3-Community, Civic & Public

MW.16	Engaging the Global in the Teaching of Writing: Critical
and Multiperspective Approaches
	

Facilitators from several countries will help participants share and discuss
teaching activities/ideas on global and cross-cultural issues.

GRB Room 361BE, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Santosh Khadka, California State University, Northridge
Sara Alvarez, University of Louisville
Ligia Mihut, Barry Univeristy
Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University

36

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 36

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Speakers: Suresh Canagarajah, Penn State University
Violeta Natera, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali
Vanessa Kraemer Sohan, Florida International University
Joleen Hanson, University of Wisconsin-Stout
Andrés Gómez, Universidad de los Andes
Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University
Keith Lloyd, Kent State University
Maha Bali, American University of Cairo
Lisa Arnold, North Dakota State University
Thomas Lavelle, Stockholm School of Economics
Tom Do, Concordia University Chicago
Samantha NeCamp, University of Cincinnati
Pearl Pang, Yonsei University, South Korea
Claudia Doroholschi, West University of Timisoara
Iswari Pandey, California State University, Northridge
2-Basic Writing

MW.17	Grammar, Grammars, and the Teaching of Grammar in
the 21st Century
	

A workshop designed to help participants develop alternatives to traditional
approaches to teaching grammar.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Speakers: Susan Gabriel, Community College of Baltimore County
Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

MW.18	Tools, Not Rules: A Workshop in Progressive Grammar
	

Grammar is involved in the construction of meaning in all its manifestations
and is best taught as a resource for agency.

Hilton, Room 337A, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Joseph Salvatore, The New School
Craig Hancock, University at Albany
Speakers: Joseph Salvatore, The New School, "Sentence as Shaper of
Meaning"
Stella Wang, University of Rochester, "Corpus Studies of Personal
Pronouns"
Craig Hancock, University at Albany, "Intonation and Punctuation"
Cornelia Paraskevas, Western Oregon University, "Thematic Development"
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, "A Language-Construction
Approach to "Basic" Writing: Providing Feedback That Fosters Local/
Global Meaning-Making"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	37

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 37

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Afternoon 1:30–5:00 p.m.
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.01	Strategic Action in Teaching against Plagiarism: Using
Plagiarism Pedagogically
	

This workshop focuses on developing practical teaching strategies to help
students learn how to engage with sources and avoid plagiarizing.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Speakers: Gerald Nelms, Wright State University
Robert Yagelski, University at Albany, SUNY
Valerie Seiling Jacobs, Columbia University
Carole Papper, Hofstra University
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

AW.02	Generating WAC/WID/WIC/WEC Action Plans: Strategies
for Advancing Writing through Faculty Development
	

Speakers provide heuristics for advancing writing vertically by designing
WAC/WID/WIC/WEC faculty action plans across the disciplines.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Debra Frank Dew, Valparaiso University
Speakers: Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, "Increasing Success
for Multilingual Writers in a WAC/WIC/WID Program"
Mike Michaud, Rhode Island College, Kingston, "New to Bean (but not to
WAC)"
Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota, "Building a
Writing-Enriched Program"
Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University, "Creating New Infrastructure
for WID Initiatives"
Debra Frank Dew, Valparaiso University, "Interdisciplinary Thresholds:
WIC as Site for Vertical Transfer as Strategic Action"
Delys Snyder, Brigham Young University, "Transferring Writing
Knowledge from Professors to Teaching Assistants"
William FitzGerald, Rutgers University at Camden, "Establishing
Common Ground for Writing in General Education"
Joyce Malek, University of Cincinnati, "From Novice to Expert: A WEC
Model for the Health Sciences and Beyond"

38

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 38

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

11-Research

AW.03 	Undergraduate Students as Researchers: Maximizing the
Mutual Benefits
	

This workshop offers frameworks and strategies for successfully engaging
undergraduate students as researchers and collaborators.

Hilton Room 332B, Level Three
Speakers: Crystal Bickford, Southern New Hampshire University
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida
Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State University of Denver
Lilian Mina, Miami University
Brett Morrison, University of Central Florida
Melissa Pompos, University of Central Florida
Michael Neal, Florida State University
3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.04 	Writing Democracy 2016 | Documenting Our Place in
History: The Political Turn, Part II
	

Writing Democracy 2016 revisits the idea of the "political turn" to develop
writing strategies for action in classrooms and communities.

GRB Room 360AD, Level Three
Co-Chair: Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Co-Chair: Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, "Escaping the Crisis/Austerity
Cul-de-Sac in the Political Economy of Composition"
Respondents: Steve Parks, Syracuse University
Elenore Long, Arizona State University
Benjamin Kuebrich, Syracuse University
David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas
Veronica House, University of Colorado
Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University
Carmen Kynard, St. John’s University
Kurt Spellmeyer, Rutgers University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	39

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 39

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

AW.05 	Coming Together for Action: Multi-Level Institutional
Support for Contingent Faculty
	

Institutions are morally obligated to support contingent faculty; the facilitators of this workshop offer some strategies for consideration.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Speakers: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, "Coming Together
for Action: Multi-Level Institutional Support for Contingent Faculty"
Dorothy Arnett, University of Central Missouri
Daniel Schierenbeck, University of Central Missouri
Brenda Woods, University of Central Missouri
8-Taking Action

AW.06 	Taking Action to Support Graduate Writers across the
Curriculum
	

This workshop explores the needs of graduate writers, types of graduate
writing support, and pedagogical approaches for graduate writing.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Michelle Cox, Cornell University
Speakers: Talinn Phillips, Ohio University
Michelle Cox, Cornell University
Jenae Cohn, University of California, Davis
Daniel Moglen, University of California, Davis
Katya Fairbanks, Claremont Graduate University
6-Information Technologies

AW.07 	Corpus-Based Approaches to Writing
	

This half-day workshop shows how corpus-based teaching and research
help disrupt or confirm our intuitive notions about written texts.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Speakers: Laura Aull, Wake Forest University
Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University
Brian Ray, University of Nebraska at Kearney
Cameron Mozafari, University of Maryland
Daniel Kies, College of DuPage
Sandra Kies, Benedictine University
Sonja Launspach, Idaho State University

40

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 40

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

AW.08 	Developing Practical Pedagogical Approaches for
International L2 Writers in the Classroom and Beyond
	

The workshop focuses on initiating and developing supports for international students from inside and outside of the classroom.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Co-Chair: Katherine Silvester, Indiana University
Speakers: Jennifer Eidum Zinchuk, Elon University
Mariya Tseptsura, University of New Mexico
Pisarn Bee Chamcharatsri, University of New Mexico
Greer Murphy, Woodbury University
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech
Norah Fahim, University of Washington
Paul Kei Matsuda, Arizona State University
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.09 	Working with Military-Affiliated Writers: Research and
Practice for Composition Teachers, Scholars, and WPAs
	

Sharing and planning strategies for working with military-affiliated writers
in writing intensive programs, courses, and research.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Mariana Grohowski, Massachusetts Maritime Academy
Speakers: Cassandra Branham, University of Central Florida
Catherine St. Pierre, Ohio State University / UPJ
Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College
Derek Handly, United States Naval Academy
April Cobos, Old Dominion University
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University
Sue Doe, Colorado State University
Jeannie Waller, University of Arkansas
Tara Hembrough, Southeastern Oklahoma State University
Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Lamar University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	41

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 41

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

AW.10 	UDL 101: Accessibility, Pedagogy, and Praxis
	

This hands-on workshop teaches the why, what, and how of (re)designing
accessible instructional materials.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Speakers: Andrea Beaudin, Texas Tech University
Angela Shaffer, Texas Tech University
Sean Zdenek, Texas Tech University
3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.11 	Telling Stories, Writing Cultures: Using Indigenous
Rhetorics in the Writing Classroom
	

This workshop will prepare participants to incorporate Indigenous rhetorical practices into composition classrooms.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Phill Alexander, Miami University
Speakers: Gail MacKay, University of Saskatchewan
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University
Ezekiel Choffel, Michigan State University
Sundy Watanabe, University of Utah
Yavanna Brownlee, Ohio University
Phill Alexander, Miami University
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.12 	Teaching Writing Abroad: Identifying Challenges and
Opportunities
	

As study abroad gains momentum, what role should writing play in this
high-impact practice?

GRB Room 360BE, Level Three
Speakers: Martha Townsend, University of Missouri
Katie Gindlesparger, Philadelphia University
Eli Goldblatt, Temple University
Linda Breslin, Southwestern Christian University, Bethany
Jim Bowman, St. John Fisher College
William Lalicker, West Chester University

42

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 42

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

AW.13 	First-Year Writing Assessment Strategies for General
Education and Accreditation Expectations
	

This workshop prepares participants to assess first-year writing programs
for general education and accreditation using best practices.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Amanda Morris, Kutztown University
Speakers: Kathy Hartman, Kutztown University, "IRB and Funding
Facilitator"
Amanda Morris, Kutztown University, "Organizer/Best Practices and
Artifact Assessment Facilitator"
Moe Folk, Kutztown University, "Local Rubric Design Facilitator"
Patricia Pytleski, Kutztown University, "Norming Facilitator"
Discussion Leaders: Robert Kilker, Kutztown University, "Artifact
Assessment Discussion Leader"
Carissa Pokorny-Golden, Kutztown University, "Floating Discussion
Leader"
Respondents: Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, "Coordinator of
Composition"
Kevin Mahoney, Kutztown University, "Institutional Strategist"
9-Language

AW.14 	Language and Lived Experience as Strategies for
Writing and Coalition Building within a New Rhetoric
of Difference
	

Multimedia, hands-on workshop to illuminate critical identity work among
teachers and students as the basis for liberatory writing.

Hilton, Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Speakers: Rashidah Jaami` Muhammad, Governors State University,
"African American Male Students in First-Year Writing Classes"
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "From Civil Rights to Students’ Right to Their Own Language to #BlackLivesMatter: Hiphop
Womanism and HiphopGirlFeminism"
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis,
"Multi-Level Strategies for Effecting Change in Teacher Knowledge
and Attitudes Toward a New Rhetoric of Difference"
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, "From Civil Rights to
Students’ Right to Their Own Language to #BlackLivesMatter: Hiphop
Womanism and HiphopGirlFeminism"

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	43

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 43

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Geneva Smitherman, Michigan State University, "Theorizing for the
Twenty-First Century"
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, "Linguistic Gendercide and
Indigenous Resistance"
Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, "Rhetoric/s of Difference"
Bonnie Williams, California State University Fullerton, "Designing
Co-Created Curriculum"
David Green, Howard University, "Designing Co-Created Curriculum"
Austin Jackson, Michigan State University, "Designing Co-Created
Curriculum"

44

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 44

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

All-Day Wednesday Workshops
9:00–5:00 p.m.
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

W.01 	 Mindful Writing: Taking Action toward a More Balanced
Writing Life
	

This workshop offers participants direct experience in mindful writing strategies through meditation, yoga, and guided writing sessions.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri
Jonathan Cisco, University of Missouri
Tara Pauliny, John Jay College/CUNY
Rebecca Dingo, University of Massachusetts
Amy Lannin, University of Missouri
Naomi Clark, Loras College
Jessica Philbrook, University of Missouri
Donna Strickland, University of Missouri
7-Institutional and Professional

W.02 	 Leadership in Action: A Workshop for Heads, Directors,
WPAs, and Future Faculty Leaders
	

We will use research on institutional leadership and practical scenarios to
help administrators develop their leadership skills.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona
Thomas P. Miller, University of Arizona
Discussion Leaders: Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University
Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University
John Scenters-Zapico, California State University, Long Beach
Jane Detweiler, University of Nevada Reno
Joddy Murray, Texas Christian University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	45

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 45

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

11-Research

W.03 	 Responsible Action: International Higher Education
Writing Research Exchange
	

Forty-two researchers from 28 countries share drafts in advance and have
extended dialogue in small groups for deep exchange about writing research.

GRB Room 361CF, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III, "Mapping
Global Writing Studies"
Discussion Leaders: Olga Aksakalova, LaGuardia Community College,
"Writing as Responsible Social Action in Post-Soviet Moscow"
Joe Moxley, University of South Florida, "Politeness, Criticism & Praise
in Student Peer Reviews, a Cross-Cultural Analysis"
Asko Kauppinen, Malmö University, "Politeness, Criticism & Praise in
Student Peer Reviews, a Cross-Cultural Analysis"
Magnus Gustafsson, Chalmers University of Technology, "Threshold
Concepts for Testing Disciplinary Discourse Literacy"
Nuwar Mawlawi Diab, Lebanese American University, "Engagement,
Error Revision, and Reflection: Tools to Reduce Students’ Lexical
Errors"
Ann-Marie Eriksson, University of Gothenburg, "Investigating Academic
Writing Assignments as Mediational Activity and Situated Practice:
Taking the Participant Perspective as the Analytical Approach to
Writing in the Disciplines at University"
Rebecca Dingo, University of Massachusetts
Jonathan Dueck, The George Washington University, "Mapping Global
Writing Studies"
Anannya Dasgupta, Shiv Nadar University, "International Writing
Partnerships and Pedagogy: An Exploratory Pilot between Shiv Nadar
University and Duke University"
Denise Comer, Duke University, Raleigh, "International Writing
Partnerships and Pedagogy: An Exploratory Pilot between Shiv Nadar
University and Duke University"
Damian Finnegan, Malmö University, "Politeness, Criticism & Praise in
Student Peer Reviews, a Cross-Cultural Analysis"
Estela Ene, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, "EFL
Writing, Teacher Training, Students Needs and National Policy in
Poland"
Lynne Ronesi, American University of Sharjah, "WID in an Introductory
Major Course: Supporting Multilingual Chemical Engineering Students
in the United Arab Emirates"
Brooke Ricker, Pennsylvania State University, "Negotiation of Pedagogies
in EFL Writing Instruction in a Serbian University"

46

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 46

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

María Errezuriz, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, "Academic
Writing Implicit Beliefs of Students and Initial Teaching Education
Programme Preparers in Chile: Analysis of a Significant Relationship
for the Development of Writing Skills"
Beth Gulley, Johnson County Community College, "The American
Composition I Course as an Extracurricular Activity for Chinese
Students Who Are Studying at a Chinese University"
Rachel Griffo, Community College of Allegheny County,
"Recontextualizing Composition Studies: The Translingual Practices
of Chinese Scholars Teaching in U.S. Universities (1987-2014)"
Dyanne Escorcia, University of Poitiers, "Self-Regulation Strategies of
Writing: A Key to Improve Academic Writing?"
Zsuzsanna Reed, Central European University Budapest, "‘What Is of the
Biggest Importance for this Particular Part of the Thesis and Chapters
to Be, I Would Like to Attempt to Pursue My Task…’: Eastern
European Students Writing History in English"
Keith Comer, Victoria University of Wellington, "Wayfinding and
Evaluating Grammar and Style Checking Applications in Composition
Studies"
Trista Rappert-McGetrick, Fulbright Ukraine, "The Rhetorical Structure
of Research Article Introductions in Ukrainian and American Scholarly
Journals"
Karl-Heinz Pogner, Copenhagen Business School, "The Double Transition
during the Master Thesis Project at a Business University: Becoming a
(Peripheral) Member of the Academic and the Professional Discourse
Community?"
Violeta Molina-Natera, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana Cali-Colombia,
"Content/Language Partnership in Teaching Disciplinary Contents
through Reading and Writing"
Majid Fatahipour, IAU Parand Branch, "Investigating the Predictors of
Quality of Writing (in English) amongst EFL Skilled Writers in Iran
and Comparing It with Native Skilled Writing"
Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, "English Writing Curriculum and
Instruction at a Teacher Training College in Vietnam: Aligning with
2020 Project Goals"
Tyler Evans-Tokaryk, University of Toronto Mississauga, "Academic
Writing Instruction and the Discourse of English as an International
Language (EIL): A Comparative Study of Canadian and South African
Writing Centres"
Andrea Scott, Pitzer College, "Far from the Margins: Theorizing the
Disciplinary Histories of Writing Centers in Germany, Austria, and
Switzerland"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	47

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 47

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Lance Cummings, University of North Carolina Wilmington, "Language
Ideologies and Academic English in Pakistan"
Jason Peters, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, "The Cross-Border Archives of
Composition"
Simon Bell, Coventry University, "Les Mots Juste [sic]"
Sabine Dengscherz, University of Vienna, "Strategies for Professional
Multilingual Writing"
Wendy Kasap, Turkey, "Teaching Academic Writing to Altaic Learners"
Najla Jarkas, American University of Beirut, "The Challenge of Writing in
Context"
Anna Wärnsby, Malmö University, "Politeness, Criticism & Praise in
Student Peer Reviews, a Cross-Cultural Analysis"
Steffen Guenzel, University of Central Florida, "Writing Practices and
Pedagogy in Higher Education in Germany"
Liliana Tolchinsky, Universitat de Barcelona, "Academic Writing as a
Learning Tool: Writing to Learn"
Roman Banzer, University of Liechtenstein, "Lecture, Notes, and Peer
Feedback"
Natalia Fullana, Universitat de Barcelona, "Academic Writing as a
Learning Tool: Writing to Learn"
Martin McMorrow, Massey University, "Common Purpose? Collaborative
Writing Development in a New Zealand University"
Kirk St. Amant, East Carolina University, "Expanding Theories and
Approaches to Researching Writing Practices in Global Contexts"
Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida, "Expanding Theories and
Approaches to Researching Writing Practices in Global Contexts"
Anne Nebel, Georgetown University SFSQ, "Empirical Investigations
of Academic Writing and Its Development in the Context of Superdiversity"
Chenchen Huang, Pennsylvania State University, "When a Billion
Chinese Learn to Write in English: How China Has Shaped
Composition Studies"
Elisa Rosado, Universitat de Barcelona, "Academic Writing as a Learning
Tool: Writing to Learn"
Rachel Riedner, George Washington University, "Mapping Global Writing
Studies"

48

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 48

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

W.04 	 Play as Activism: Using Game-Based Pedagogy to Build
Structural Understanding, Foster Empathy, and Scaffold
Change.
	

By playing and designing games for change, participants will learn how to
produce learning outcomes from key concepts in game theory.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Speakers: Jessica Dambruch, Old Dominion University
Howard Fookman, Michigan State University
Kevin Moberly, Old Dominion University
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University
Lee Hibbard, University of Alabama in Huntsville
Sarah Dwyer, Valdosta State University
Rebekah Shultz Colby, University of Denver
Richard Colby, University of Denver
Kris Purzycki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida
Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Anjali Pattanayak, University of Wisconsin-Platteville
Emily Bunner, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
2-Basic Writing

W.05 	 The Transformative Action of Basic Writing: The 2016
Council on Basic Writing Preconference Workshop
	

Exposing intersections between lives of students/instructors and institutions
to argue for basic writing action that fosters social justice.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Co-Chairs: Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, "The Action of
Emerging Scholars"
Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, CUNY, "Diverse Needs and
Talents: Acting on the Promise of BW"
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, "Grasping the
"Phenomenal Forms": A Dialogue on Taking Action in Basic Writing"
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, "CBW INNY Award Presentation:
Taking Action beyond the Classroom"
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Working with
Labor in BW"
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, "The Transformative
Action of Basic Writing"
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, "The Transformative Action of
Basic Writing"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	49

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 49

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Speakers: Anicca Cox, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, "Working
with Labor in BW"
Long Chu, Writers in the Schools, "Creating Space for Writing as Activist
Practice: Writing with WITS"
Hope Parisi, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY, "Diverse Needs
and Talents: Acting on the Promise of BW"
Andrew Lucchesi, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Diverse Needs and
Talents: Acting on the Promise of BW"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Grasping the
"Phenomenal Forms": A Dialogue on Taking Action in Basic Writing"
Karen Uehling, Boise State University, "CBW INNY Award Presentation:
Taking Action beyond the Classroom"
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Creating Space
for Writing as Activist Practice: Writing with WITS"
Christie Toth, University of Utah, "Diverse Needs and Talents: Acting on
the Promise of BW"
Jennifer Swartout, Heartland Community College, "Diverse Needs and
Talents: Acting on the Promise of BW"
Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University, "CBW INNY Award Presentation:
Taking Action beyond the Classroom"
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, "Grasping the "Phenomenal
Forms": A Dialogue on Taking Action in Basic Writing"
Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University, "Working with Labor in
BW"
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, "CBW INNY Award Presentation:
Taking Action beyond the Classroom"
8-Taking Action

W.06 	 Supporting Innovation and Effecting Change at Two-Year
Colleges and Open-Access Institutions
	

The session will provide strategies for teaching writing, program innovation, and effecting change at two-year and open-access institutions.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Speakers: Kristen Welch, Cochise College, "Building Frameworks for
Collaborative Assessment Plans at Cochise College"
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College, "Combining
Assessment and Instruction: Wearing Two Hats in the Writing Lab"
Katie Kalish, University of Wisconsin Marathon County, "Effecting
Change to Department Culture: Professional Development and Online
Support"
Jennifer Heinert, University of Wisconsin-Washington County, "Effecting
Change to Department Culture: Professional Development and Online
Support"

50

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 50

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Genie Giaimo, Bristol Community College, "Innovating while Growing a
Community College Writing Center: Student-Directed Writing Center
Research at Bristol Community College"
Felicita Arzu Carmichael, New Mexico State University, "Introducing a
New Online Writing Instruction Training and Professional Development
Program at NMSU"
Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College, "Is there a Writing
Program in This College NOW?"
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, "Using Research to
Develop Programs to Support Underprepared Students’ Transition to
College Reading, Writing, and Learning"
Christie Toth, University of Utah, "Rethinking ‘Class’: Poverty, Pedagogy,
and Two-Year College Writing Programs"
Brett Griffiths, University of Michigan, "Rethinking ‘Class’: Poverty,
Pedagogy, and Two-Year College Writing Programs."
Cassandra Phillips, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha, "Using Research
to Develop Programs to Support Underprepared Students’ Transition to
College Reading, Writing, and Learning"
Erin Doran, University of Texas at San Antonio, "Challenges and
Opportunities of Faculty Responding to Integrated Reading and
Writing at One Texas College"
7-Institutional and Professional

W.07 	 More Than Warm Bodies Needed: Who Is Qualified to
Teach Writing and How Do We Know?
	

This workshop engages participants in discussions of expertise needed for
teaching writing at all levels.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Discussion Leaders: J. Blake Scott, University of Central Florida
Betsy Verhoeven, Susquehanna University
Peggy O’Neill, Loyola University Maryland
E. Shelley Reid, George Mason University
Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado Boulder
Laura J. McCartan, Metropolitan State University
Tony Scott, Syracuse University
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	51

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 51

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

W.08 	 A Workshop Sponsored by the Latin@ Caucus: Latin@s
Taking Action in and out of the Academy
	

This daylong workshop seeks to help members of the Latin@ Caucus
increase their participation in activist and scholarly forums.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Speakers: Consuelo Salas, University of Texas at El Paso
Raul Sanchez, University of Florida
Iris Ruiz, University of California Merced
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, SUNY
Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky
Sara Alvarez, University of Louisville
James Chase Sanchez, Texas Christian University
Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
Kendall Leon, Portland State University
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University
4-Creative Writing

W.09 	 Writing Teachers Writing: Words in/as Action
	

Participants will explore creative nonfiction through writing to prompts and
discussing teaching strategies and issues.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Libby Falk Jones, Berea College
Speakers: Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University
Ann E. Green, Saint Joseph’s University
Eberly Barnes, University of California San Diego
Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University
Sandee McGlaun, Roanoke College
Irene Papoulis, Trinity College
Wendy Ryden, LIU-Post
Jacquelyne Kibler, Arizona State University
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph’s University
Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver

52

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 52

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

W.10 	 Working Wikipedia: An Interdisciplinary Path to Taking
Action
	

Contribute to the Wikipedia user community and design assignments that
enhance learning, draw on archives, and challenge representation gaps.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Speakers: Greta Kuriger Suiter, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
"Incorporating Archival Resources"
Amanda Rust, Northeastern University, "Good Digital Citizenship"
Rebecca Thorndike-Breeze, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
"Activism in Wikipedia: Working with Underrepresented Groups and
Topics"
Jami Mathewson, Wiki Education Foundation
Cecelia A. Musselman, Northeastern University, "Critical Thinking in
Action: Determining What and How to Contribute"
Amy Carleton, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "Establishing
Notability: Source Use in Wikipedia"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

W.11 	 Moving from Pro Forma to Performa: Music and
Performance in the Writing Classroom
	

Learn and practice a variety of performance and musical techniques for
enhancing writing instruction and professional development.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Chair: Peter Khost, Stony Brook University
Speakers: Peter Khost, Stony Brook University
Bob Lazaroff, Nassau Community College, SUNY
David Hyman, Lehman College, CUNY
Lauren Esposito, Marywood University
Shawn Garrett, Friends Academy
Nicole Galante, Stony Brook University
Faith Kurtyka, Creighton University
June Griffin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	53

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 53

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

W.12 	 Feminist Workshop: Action through Care
	

This workshop will look at the concept of care, through a feminist lens, as
it is applied at the intersections of home and institution.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Co-Chairs: April Conway, Bowling Green State University
Lydia McDermott, Whitman College
Alison A. Lukowski, Christian Brothers University
Patty Wilde, University of New Hampshire
Jennifer Nish, American University of Beirut
Lauren Connolly, Lewis-Clark State College
Speakers: Kirsti Cole, Minnesota State University, Mankato
Amanda Greenwell, Central Connecticut State University
Cheryl Smith, Baruch College, CUNY
Elizabeth Baldridge, Illinois Central College
Krystia Nora, California University of Pennsylvania
Candace Epps-Robertson, Michigan State University
Sarah Prielipp, Michigan State University
Michelle Miley, Montana State University

54

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 54

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Thursday, April 7
Special Events and Meetings

Room and Location Names
Sessions are located in both the George R. Brown Convention Center and
the Hilton Americas–Houston using the abbreviations GRB and Hilton.

Newcomers’ Coffee Hour
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
Gathering to Celebrate the Life of Charles Moran—a
"Charlie Party"
7:00 p.m.–9:30 p.m.
Public Services Wine and Whisky, located at 202 Travis St.,
Suite 100

Please join friends, colleagues, and students of Charlie Moran to remember Charlie,
who died in June 2015. Public Services Wine and Whisky is located at 202 Travis
St., Suite 100, approximately one mile from the Convention Center. The entrance is
located in the lobby of the old Cotton Exchange Building. There will be a cash bar.
Sharing of stories about Charlie will begin at 8:00 p.m.

Scholars for the Dream Reception
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.
Anzaldúa Awards Reception
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
7:00 p.m.–8:00 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	55

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 55

3/7/16 3:34 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Opening General Session
		GRB Auditorium
		

8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Presiding: Linda Adler-Kassner, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, University
of California, Santa Barbara
Greetings: Jennifer Wingard, Local Arrangements Chair, University of Houston
Douglas Hesse, NCTE President, University of Denver
Eva Payne, TYCA Chair, Chemeketa Community College, Corvallis, Oregon

Scholars for the Dream—2016 Recipients

Antonio Byrd, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Quanisha Charles, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Brandon M. Erby, Penn State University, University Park
André Melvin Jones Jr., Kean University, Union, NJ
Jamila M. Kareem, University of Louisville, KY
Cona Marshall, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Kelly Medina-López, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Consuelo Carr Salas, The University of Texas at El Paso
Danielle Tillman Slaughter, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Sheeba Varkey, St. John’s University, Jamaica, NY
For a listing of previous Scholars for the Dream winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/scholarsforthedream.

Scholars for the Dream Travel Award Committee
Chair: Tamika L. Carey, University at Albany, NY
Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Margaret Cox, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA
Cruz Medina, Santa Clara University, CA
Staci M. Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo

To increase the participation of traditionally underrepresented groups—African
Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and other Latino
and Latina Americans, and American Indians—CCCC has established the Scholars
for the Dream Travel Awards. The awards celebrate the scholarly contributions of
first-time presenters at CCCC who are members of these groups. By providing some
funding for these scholars to travel to the Conference and to share their work with us,
we hope to make the term "underrepresented" past history.

56

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 56

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship—2016 Recipients
Dan Ehrenfeld, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Romeo García, Syracuse University, NY
Annika Konrad, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Lina Trigos-Carrillo, University of Missouri-Columbia

Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Award Committee
Chair: Scott Wible, University of Maryland, College Park
Keith Gilyard, Penn State University, University Park
Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College, Columbia, SC
Beverly Moss, Ohio State University, Columbus
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman

To remember and honor the Chairs of CCCC who have passed away, the CCCC
Executive Committee has created scholarships of $750 each to help cover the costs
of four graduate students who are presenting at the annual conference. Full-time
graduate students whose presentations were selected through the regular peer review
process are eligible for these scholarships.
For a listing of previous Chairs’ Memorial Scholarship Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/chairsscholarship.

Presentation of the Exemplar Award

This award is presented to a person who has served or serves as an exemplar of our
organization, representing the highest ideals of scholarship, teaching, and service to
the entire profession.
Sondra Perl, winner of the 2016 CCCC Exemplar Award, will speak.
Exemplar Award Committee
Chair: 	 Geneva Smitherman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
		
Arnetha Ball, Stanford University, CA
		
David Bartholomae, University of Pittsburgh, PA
		
Gesa Kirsch, Bentley University, Waltham, MA
		
Jaime Armin Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
For a listing of previous Exemplar Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/exemplar.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	57

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 57

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Sondra Perl, 2016 Exemplar
of the Conference on College
Composition and Communication
Who among us would certifiably know that 45 years later
one would indelibly shape the field one began working in
as a graduate student, but also contribute in ways which
would help improve the writing skills of countless students at all levels, nationally and internationally? The
accomplishments Sondra accumulated throughout her
long, distinguished career deservedly raise her to receive
the highest honor the Conference on College Composition and Communication bestows—the 2016 Exemplar
Award. In a variety of inspiring roles, she has helped
Sondra Perl
shape our field as few others have, for as her colleagues
at CUNY remind us, she has worked as a "scholar, researcher, teacher, writer, faculty development leader, dissertation advisor, mentor,
and caring collaborator for so many of us on so many different projects."
In rhetoric and composition studies, Sondra Perl has been an exemplar to our field
because of the many diverse and important contributions she has tirelessly given us.
Her intellect and intuition, at the right time and place, have lifted us all up through
her indefatigable work ethic and her amazing ability to work with others to solve
problems which our field very much needed solved. Her pioneering research, which
she has never stopped developing in innovative ways, and her generous collegiality
as a teacher, without question have truly been exemplary.
Few of us have engaged such a wide range of research interests as Sondra has, like
with her "emphasis on writing processes, the role of the body and felt sense in composing, the promotion of an ethnographic approach to classroom research based on
the tenets of narrative inquiry, exploration of creative nonfiction, and, in the 21st
century, moving into the digital world with her exploration of digital composing."
As a teacher, Sondra is widely known to welcome all voices with her characteristic
warmth, always expanding the reach teachers can have, innovating programs which
reach to K–12 schools as well as across the disciplines on college campuses.
Her "Looking Both Ways" initiative, for instance, which started in 1998 and ran
through 2006, brought high school and college instructors together to share their
experiences about teaching and assessing writing. Another CUNY project Sondra
developed was called Writing Across the Curriculum, a University‐wide program
mandated by the CUNY Board of Trustees in 1999. This project depended primarily

58

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 58

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

on CUNY Writing Fellows, doctoral students from the CUNY Graduate Center who,
at that time, lacked the standard fellowship support typical of so many other graduate
programs. It is really not too much to say that, at the time, these fellows were defined
primarily by what they were not: neither tutors nor teachers, their job was to "facilitate" both faculty and students in this innovative WAC program.
Sondra has also had a major presence in the composition studies landscape during
her 45-year career. Her dynamic presence when speaking in public forums is another
place where she has left an incredible mark on our profession, appearing on numerous panels and writing workshops at CCCC and other major regional and national
conferences. As a professional, she has frequently been a keynote speaker and, of
course, has greatly influenced us with her groundbreaking published scholarship.
Her reach as a professional also impacted many on the international stage. Her work
with Austrian teachers, for instance, influenced her in 2005 to work with the Memorial Library to create the Holocaust Educators Network, a development program
modeled on the National Writing Project, which she has directed since its inception.
Her ongoing contribution to Holocaust education combines Holocaust and writing
education in an effort to support middle school, high school, and college faculty
across the country.
Most recently, Sondra has worked with emergent digital technologies and composing genres, which demonstrates, in typical exemplar fashion, what it means to be a
life-long learner. Sondra shows us how to enter into new and unfamiliar professional
projects with an inquisitive mind and an open heart, bringing the life-long experiences of a scholar and teacher of writing which serve as an exemplary model for us all.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	59

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 59

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Chair’s Address
		Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.
Making, Disrupting, Innovating
We watch with concern the various external and internal
scavengers that nibble away at our disciplinary, scholarly,
and teacherly activities and autonomy, and we sometimes
bemoan our position in the humanities as we rage against
the machine of STEM political priorities. We sheepishly
explain how important we are to the university and society, apologize while not apologizing even as we ask, like
Oliver Twist, for some more because we know, we feel,
that what we do is valuable—self-evidently valuable.
Despite that belief, the value of what we do is not selfevident to anyone outside this room. That value is a
proposition that has to be argued, not just once, but over
and over, in many forms, from stories to empirical data, and in many settings, from
governing bodies to the popular press.
Joyce Locke Carter
Texas Tech University

Many of us have difficulty balancing the good we do versus the need to argue for it
constantly, about contextualizing our priorities as writers, researchers, and teachers
within organizational strategies and mission statements. We are empowered by the
stability of a maturing discipline and its centrality in the cosmos, but we also fear the
instability of politics, economics, and society as they seek to "fix" what’s wrong with
education. We are both on the vanguard and in the crosshairs.
I would argue that we act within this conflicted milieu cautiously, moving slowly,
pursuing incremental change, a runcible process from a position of what we already
know to a new position of what we also know. And this isn’t a criticism: such an
approach comes rationally from working under bureaucracies, time and space constraints, budgets, and material reality. I think this condition applies equally to our
classrooms as to this conference, this organization.
At last year’s CCCC Convention in Tampa, I invited the membership to think differently about the conference and about our discipline with a theme of Risk and Reward.
I attempted to disrupt the conservatism of incremental change by instituting new
modes of presentation, such as the Action Hub for working and learning together,
poster sessions so that more members could get on the program, and Ignite presentations that highlighted member innovation.

60

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 60

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 8:30–12:30 a.m.

In this year’s chair’s address, "Making, Disrupting, Innovating," I continue that
theme by making the somewhat risky case that we need to push ourselves well outside of our own comfort zone as an organization and a discipline, much as we ask
our students to do. I argue that, in addition to well-known and celebrated threshold
concepts of our field, writing is also about making, disrupting, and innovating—on
the page, in the classroom, in our programs, in this organization, within our field and
beyond to the broader world of higher education, the workplace, and society.
The term disruptive innovation has been fashionable amongst high-tech gurus and
organizational theorists for fifteen years, and refers to the need to abandon traditional
practices that, while comfortable, are ultimately harmful precisely because of their
comfort. While the concept sometimes evokes a mindless (and needless) overthrow
of conventions, it also serves as an encouraging nudge for innovators upon whose
inventions such disruption depends.
We are those disruptors, those dreamers of dreams—or at least I argue that we can be.
I think we should make more disruption and less accommodation. We should focus
more on making and makers and less on outcomes assessment and bureaucrats. We
should celebrate writing innovation, and encourage innovation in writing, writing
research, writing programs, and writing organizations.
I invite you to attend this talk, where I plan to get out of my own comfort zone, share/
enact examples of disruptive practices in teaching, conferencing, researching, and
writing, and brainstorm with you how we may see with new eyes and new methods
the innovative and disruptive possibilities of our organization and our discipline.
Joyce Locke Carter is an associate professor of rhetoric and technical communication at Texas Tech University, where she teaches undergraduate and graduate courses
in argumentation, UX/usability research, publication management, and rhetoric and
technology. Her work appears in the journals Computers and Composition, Technical Communication, her Hampton Press book on market and market-like rhetorical
activities, and a Baywood Press book edited by Cook & Grant-Davie on distance
education. She wrote the proposal for the Texas Tech PhD degree offered via distance education and managed that degree for its first 11 years. Her current book
project, Reading Arguments: How Sophisticated Readers Read Graduate Admissions
Arguments, uses eye-tracking and usability research methods to study how experts
read high-stakes arguments. Dr. Carter serves as Chief Financial Officer for the Lubbock startup EyeGuide Technologies, a product of intellectual property technology
transfer from Texas Tech’s writing program. Before coming to Texas Tech, she was
the CEO of the Austin-based Daedalus Group, an educational software firm that facilitated online writing instruction in the days before the Web. This company, also a
product of technology transfer created in a writing program, was founded by herself,
fellow graduate students, and faculty at the University of Texas. She received both
her MBA and her PhD in rhetoric from the University of Texas at Austin.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	61

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 61

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

A Sessions: 10:30–11:45 a.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
A.39	 Taking Action Workshop: Naming and Narrowing
	

Refer to page 16 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Glenda Eoyang, HSD Institute

A.40	 Taking Action Workshop: Building Alliances
	

Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Sarah Scanlon, Arkansas State Director for Bernie 2016

Poster Session
Undergraduate Researcher Poster Session
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Prefunction, Level Two
This session will showcase the work of over a dozen students from across the
U.S. who have been engaged in research on writing. They’ll be presenting their
posters on Thursday, April 7th from 10:30 a.m.–11:45 a.m. Posters may be left
throughout the day.
Chair: Jessie Moore, Elon University

62

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 62

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.01 	 Learning Re-abled Twenty Years Later: Re-Strategizing
Ourselves, Our Teaching Practices, and Our Learning
Spaces for Action
	

We are invested in exploring how we can further develop our FYC courses
for incoming LD students in unexpected ways.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Michael Williams, Carnegie Mellon
Speakers: Lori Ostergaard, Oakland University
Michael Riendeau, Eagle Hill School
Jason Dockter, Lincoln Land Community College
Matthew Kim, Eagle Hill School
Respondent: Patricia Dunn, Stony Brook University
2-Basic Writing

A.02 	 Transforming Writing Programs to Support Underprepared
Students’ Progress as College Readers
	

How to transform writing programs to address the learning needs of underprepared college readers.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Laura Allen, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Cassandra Phillips, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha,
"Developing a Writing Program around Critical Reading Based on
Placement, Assessment, and Research Data"
Jennifer Heinert, University of Wisconsin-Washington County, "Student
Perceptions and Threshold Concepts: Designing for Rhetorical
Knowledge"
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, "Evidence-Based
Practices for Supporting Underprepared Students’ Development as
Critical Readers"
Katie Kalish, University of Wisconsin Marathon County, "Assessing
Student Writers’ Progress in Critical Reading"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	63

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 63

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.03 	 (Dis)appearing Collaborative Bodies: Re-Perceiving the
Writing Center/Classroom Divide to Engage Third-Space
Pedagogies
	

We recount original research on cross-class collaboration in digital third
spaces, arguing for writing center curricular interventions.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Irina Arminau, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Speakers: Jonathan Rylander, Miami University
Kyle Larson, Miami University
Ryan Vingum, Miami University
4-Creative Writing,14-Writing Programs

A.04 	 Reconsidering Professional Credentials of Writing
Program Faculty
	

Drawing on recent discussions, we will address questions about the roles
that MFA degree-holders play in writing programs.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Natalie Belcher, Delaware State University
Speakers: John Peterson, Stanford University
Marjorie Stewart, Glenville State College
Duane Roen, Arizona State University
Steve Bailey, Central Michigan University
Daniel Cleary, Lorain County Community College
Steven Krause, Eastern Michigan University
11-Research

A.05 	 Studying Action in Medicine through Surrogates,
Simulations, and Other Shadow Work
	

Three innovative methods for capturing the complexity of medical rhetoric
and writing in backstage, inaccessible, or private contexts.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Susan Popham, University of Memphis
Speakers: Elizabeth L. Angeli, Towson University, "Researching Writing
and Action in Inaccessible Research Sites"
Patrick Thomas, University of Dayton, "Simulating Rhetorical Strategies
for Online Health Information Searches"
Christa Teston, The Ohio State University, "Rhetorical Epistemographies
of Evidentiary Shadow Work"
Respondent: Susan Popham, University of Memphis

64

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 64

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

6-Information Technologies

A.06 	 Digital Identity and Community
	

This panel investigates how teachers, students, and veterans perform identity and practice literacies in cyber communities.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Michael Pennell, University of Kentucky
Speakers: Cassandra Branham, University of Central Florida, "Student
Veteran, or Just Student: Identity Negotiation, Narrative Building, and
Digital Literacy Practices of Student Veterans on Facebook"
Tonya McMillion, The University of Texas at Dallas, "Communication
Patterns in Online Learning: Student Self Disclosure in Personal
Introductions"
Jeffrey Naftzinger, Florida State University, "Composing Infrastructure:
Programmatic Values and Their Effect on Digital Composition"
Carie S. Lambert, The University of Texas at Dallas, "Communication
Patterns in Online Learning: Student Self Disclosure in Personal
Introductions"
7-Institutional and Professional

A.07 	 Developing Scholarly Momentum: Action Plans for
Faculty, Graduate Students, and Their Mentors
	

Speakers offer strategies for scholarly productivity; advice is gleaned from
studies and reflection on a doctoral seminar on publishing.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Simone Billings, Santa Clara University
Speakers: Lars Soderlund, Western Oregon University, "Beyond ‘Just
Sit Down and Do It’: Writing Advice from Published Rhetoric and
Composition Scholars"
Jaclyn Wells, University of Alabama at Birmingham, "Beyond ‘Just Sit
Down and Do It’: Writing Advice from Published Rhetoric and
Composition Scholars"
Christine Tulley, University of Findlay, OH, "Avoiding the Stalled
Academic Writing Project: Advice for Increasing Faculty Writing
Momentum from Rhetoric and Composition Superstars"
Kristine Blair, Bowling Green State University, "Preparing Graduate
Students for Scholarly Identities: Balancing Disciplinary Rhetoric with
Material Reality"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	65

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 65

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

11-Research

A.08 	 How to Hold a Slippery Fish: Methodological Challenges
and Solutions for Studying Student Dispositions
	

This panel presents three solutions to studying dispositions including metastudy, participant-inquiry, and basic writing mixed methods.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Gwen Gorzelsky, Colorado State University
Speakers: Amy Metcalf, Wayne State University
Jennifer Wells, New College of Florida
Dana Driscoll, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
9-Language

A.09 	 Writing Our Way to Access: L2 Writers Engage with
Revision, Strategies, and Genre Awareness
	

These panelists explore student revision and genre knowledge as paths for
success in writing classrooms.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Joanna Mann, Langston University
Speakers: Shauna Wight, Southeastern Missouri State University, "Taking
Action to Promote College Access and Agency for Resident Multilingual Writers"
Stephanie Boone-Mosher, University of South Carolina, "The Multiple
Discursive Possibilities of L2 Writers’ Micro-Revisions: Challenging
the Editing/Revision Dichotomy"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

A.10 	 Ethics in Action: Place-Based Ethics and Experience
Architecture
	

We apply Leopold’s land ethic and Buber’s narrow ridge to flesh out a
place-based approach for ethical experience architecture.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Russell Willerton, Boise State University
Speakers: Derek Ross, Auburn University
Liza Potts, Michigan State University
Michael Salvo, Purdue University
Russell Willerton, Boise State University

66

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 66

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

11-Research

A.11 	 Approaching FYC from a Research Perspective: Using
Teacher and Corpus Inquiry to Impact Practice
	

These panelists use teacher/classroom research and corpus linguistic
research to revise their pedagogies and curricular practices.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Andrew Blake, Delaware State University
Speakers: Mary McGinnis, Ball State University, "Dealing with Diversity
and Marginalization: A Rhetorical Analysis of First-Year Composition
Readers"
Cat Mahaffey, University of North Carolina-Charlotte, "There and Back
Again: How A Journey Into Online Course Design Changed the Way I
Teach Writing"
Kathleen Richards, University of North Alabama, "(Re)searching and
(Re)thinking Writing Strategies in FYC: A Call for Action"
Raymond Oenbring, The College of the Bahamas, "Course Assessment
and Corpus Linguistics"
Tammy Winner, University of North Alabama, "(Re)searching and
(Re)thinking Writing Strategies in FYC: A Call for Action"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.12 	 Creating Comunidad Situated Writing Curriculum at
Hispanic Serving Institutions: Writing beyond Theoretical
Borders
	

We present writing strategies that focus on reevaluating writing instruction
and pedagogical practices at Hispanic Serving Institutions.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Erin Boade, University of Southern Mississippi
Speakers: Candace Zepeda, Our Lady of the Lake University
Ignacio deLeon, Northwest Vista College
Isaac Hinojosa, Texas A&M Corpus Christi

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	67

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 67

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

13-Theory

A.13 	 Defining the "Cross"-Cultural: Re-thinking Rhetorical
Assumptions, Terminologies, and Practices from within
Comparative Argumentation
	

This panel considers four theoretical pivot points in the establishment of a
(teachable) cross-cultural rhetorical tradition.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University
Speakers: Keith Lloyd, Kent State University, "Using India’s Nyāya Reasoning to Teach FYC: Building Relational Arguments"
Shakil Rabbi, Pennsylvania State University, "‘Muslim India Is Now
Conscious’: Helping Students Understand Discourses of Alterity in the
Constitutive Rhetoric of Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s 1940 Lahore Speech"
Rachel Griffo, Community College of Allegheny County, "Cross-Cultural
Rhetoric: From Textual Analysis to Ethical Reading"
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, "Teaching ‘Ubuntu’:
Arguing for and about the Performances of Pan-African Women
without the Emic/Etic Distinction"
14-Writing Programs

A.14 	 Writing Experts and Technology Experts: Institutional
Collaboration for Multimodal Composition in First-Year
Writing
	

Prepares attendees to approach collaboration between writing programs and
educational technology centers for multimodal writing instruction.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Megan Boeshart, Old Dominion University
Speakers: Ryan Wetzel, Pennsylvania State University
Dan Getz, Pennsylvania State University
Krista Quesenberry, Pennsylvania State University
Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University
Laura Michael Brown, Pennsylvania State University
Trace Brown, Pennsylvania State University
13-Theory

A.15 	 Feeling Things in Writing: Material Culture, Emotion
Studies, and Writing for Social Action
	

We engage "thing theory" and cultural emotion theory to model nuanced
strategies for rhetorical theory and composition pedagogy.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three

68

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 68

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Chair: Carol Bollin, Western Illinois University
Speakers: Whitney Orth, Colorado State University, "Love Your Real
Body: Examining How the Dove Real Beauty Campaign Navigates the
Materiality of Body to Affect Affect"
John Koban, Colorado State University, "Composing Things: Thing
Theory, Composition, and the Baltimore Riots"
Lisa Langstraat, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Hoarding
Empathy: A Pedagogical Experiment in Emotions and Material
Culture"
14-Writing Programs

A.16 	 Being Teachers: The Praxis of Ethos in Instructor Training
	

This roundtable clarifies and reasserts the importance of ethos as a focus of
new instructor training and of program administration generally.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Virginia Bouie, Joliet Junior College
Speakers: Jessica George, Indiana University, "Quantifying ‘Being’: The
Measurement of Ethos in Instructor Training"
Alex Penn, Indiana University, "The Resources and Liabilities of Digital
Ethos"
Jennifer Warfel Juszkiewicz, Indiana University, "Cultivating a
Programmatic Ethos of Responsiveness"
Dana Anderson, Indiana University, "Ethos as Traditional and
Contemporary Framework for Instructor Training"
John McGlothlin, III, Indiana University, "In Defense of a Professionalized
Ethos"
Respondent: Christine Farris, Indiana University
8-Taking Action

A.17 	 Beyond Common Ground: Listening Rhetorically as a
Framework for Action in a Digital Story Project
	

Using the framework of rhetorical listening, we analyze a digital story
project for the action it enables.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University
Speakers: Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University
Kelly Belanger, Valparaiso University
Respondent: Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	69

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 69

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

A.18 	 Information Literacy and Foundational Writing:
Transforming Curricula and Programs through
Collaborative Outcomes
	

How the new ACRL Framework and WPA Outcomes can transform work in
Information Literacy, Foundational Writing, and Writing Centers.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Patricia Boyd, Arizona State University
Speakers: Libby Miles, University of Vermont, "Transformations through
Collaborative Outcomes in Foundational Writing"
Susan Dinitz, University of Vermont, "Transformations through
Collaborative Revision in Writing Centers"
Daisy Benson, University of Vermont, "Transformations through
Collaborative Design in Information Literacy"
8-Taking Action

A.19 	 Don’t Just Talk about It, Be about It: Moving beyond
Conversation to Integrate HBCU Contributions into the
Field of Composition
	

We will extend the claim that HBCUs are unique sites of inquiry, poised to
be at the forefront of conversations about race and writing.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida
Speakers: David Green, Howard University
Faye S. Maor, North Carolina A&T State University, "Making a Vision a
Reality: The 2014 Conference on Teaching Composition at HBCUs and
Future Scholarly Activities"
Karen Keaton Jackson, North Carolina Central University, "Where Do We
Go From Here? Including HBCUs in Relevant Composition Research
and Scholarly Activity"
Melissa Berry Pearson, Claflin University, "Moving Forward: Turning the
One-Time Conversation into an HBCU Special Interest Group"
Hope Jackson, North Carolina A&T State University, "Where Do We Go
From Here? Including HBCUs in Relevant Composition Research and
Scholarly Activity"
2-Basic Writing

A.20 	 Assessment, Pedagogy, and Curriculum in Basic Writing
	

In this presentation, speakers focus on methods of assessment and selfevaluation for basic writers.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three

70

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 70

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Chair: Virginia Schwarz, Portland Community College
Speakers: Matthew Pifer, Husson University, "Considering the Silences:
Designing an Integrated Developmental Writing Curriculum to
Encourage University-wide Writing Practices"
Hope Parisi, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY, "Student-Present
Narratives in Basic Writing: A Professional Writing Strategy for
Action"
Virginia Schwarz, Portland Community College, "Assessment as Activism:
Critical Pedagogy and Contract Grading"
3-Community, Civic & Public

A.21 	 Activist Pedagogies: Service-Learning and Civic
Engagement
	

In this session, panelists offer rich portraits of engaged, locally-responsive
service-learning projects.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Tracy Carrick, Cornell University
Speakers: McKinley Green, Michigan State University, "(Inter)active
Writing: Creating a Reciprocal, Engaged, and Sustainable Service
Learning Program"
Lindsay Hamilton, University of Texas at El Paso, "Propelling Classroom
Writing Into Community Engagement Using the Narrative of Self, Us,
Now"
Ravyn McKee, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "International Service
Learning in the Writing ClassEmphasizing Sustainability, Care, and
Place-Based Writing"
Nancy Reddy, Stockton University, "Personal Writing and Public Spaces:
Extracurricular Literacy Instruction as a Site of Civic Engagement"
11-Research

A.22 	 The Transfer of Transfer Project: Researching the
Efficacy of Teaching for Transfer (TFT) in Four Courses
and on Four Campuses
	

This panel shares the research design and initial findings for the multiinstitutional Teaching for Transfer (TFT) transfer project.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University
Speakers: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University
Erin Workman, Florida State University
Kara Taczak, University of Denver
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	71

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 71

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

5-History

A.23 	 Conversations with the Past: Historiography in Research
and Pedagogy
	

What makes good historiography? What are the emerging frameworks for
this kind of research?

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
Speakers: Lauren Cardon, University of Alabama
Leah DiNatale, University of Alabama, "Methods and Motivation: The
Political Possibilities of Family History"
Jennie Vaughn, University of Alabama, "Critical and Respectful: The
Balancing Act of Historical Research"
Amy Dayton, University of Alabama, "The Ethnographic Impulse in
Historical Research"
6-Information Technologies

A.24 	 Authors and Their Devices: Digital Composing Strategies
	

This panel examines the relationships between the personal and professional in digital composition pedagogies.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Mariette Ogg, U.S. Coast Guard Academy
Speakers: Nicola Wilson Clasby, Iowa State University, "Critical
Self-Awareness in the Digital Matrix via Autoethnographic Praxis"
James Lu, Emory University, "Computation-Assisted Patchwriting"
Aaron Lanser, University of California, Davis, "‘No Cell Phones During
Class, Please’: Borderlands Rhetoric and the Digital Underlife in the
First-Year Composition Classroom"
Marie Knowlton-Davis, Utah Valley University, "Writing Strategies in
Action: Personal Electronic Devices as Part of Composition Pedagogy"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.25 	 Development of Writing Transfer via Research,
Assessment, and Faculty Training
	

This presentation will emphasize the ways in which faculty development
and assessment are critical to an environment that not only values writing
but also supports it through pedagogy and research.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Robert Derr, Danville Community College

72

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 72

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Speakers: Leslie Werden, Morningside College, "Writing Transfer
Research: Process & Findings"
Jessica Tinklenberg, Morningside College, "Faculty Development &
Assessment with Regard to FYS and WAC"
Alden Stout, Morningside College, "An Inclusive Approach to Teaching
Writing"
Jeremy Schnieder, Morningside College, "Faculty Development &
Assessment with Regard to FYS and WAC"
David Elder, Morningside College, "An Inclusive Approach to Teaching
Writing"
11-Research

A.26 	 Taking Action on Intellectual Property with Open
Educational Resources
	

The Intellectual Property Caucus standing group panel on open educational
resources (OER) and initiatives.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: James P. Purdy, Duquesne University
Speakers: David Blakesley, Clemson University
Joe Moxley, University of South Florida
Mike Palmquist, Colorado State University
Charles Lowe, Grand Valley State University
Nick Carbone, Humanities Editorial Department, Macmillan
Sherry Jones, Rocky Mountain College of Art & Design
Respondents: John Willinsky, Stanford University
Jack Hennes, Michigan State University
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.27 	 Teaching Writing as Rhetorical Action in Schools and
Colleges
	

Descriptions of rhetorical action in a first-year writing program, Advanced
Placement tests, and community literacy outreach projects.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Keith Walters, Portland State University
Speakers: David Jolliffe, University of Arkansas, "Real Audiences, Real
Purposes, Real Rhetoric in a Literacy-Outreach Project"
Roger Cherry, Ohio State University, "All That Glitters Rhetorical Is Not
Rhetoric"
Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University, "Rhetoric for College Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	73

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 73

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

6-Information Technologies

A.28 	 Enacting (Digital) Citizenship in (University of) Houston
	

This panel focuses on digital writing actions related to complicating race,
sexual orientation, and student-veteran experience.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Scott Evans, University of the Pacific
Speakers: Rebecca Hallman, University of Houston
Travis Webster, University of Houston-Clear Lake
Maurice Wilson, University of Houston
6-Information Technologies

A.29 	 Bringing the Office to the Class: How Computer
Simulations Enhance Proposal Writing for Technical
Writing Students
	

Using computer simulations in technical writing pedagogy improves
students’ interest and understanding of the rhetorical situation.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Jonathan Balzotti, Brigham Young University
Speakers: Lauren Fine, Brigham Young University, "Tapping into
Narrative: How the Simulation Influenced Student Interest and
Engagement"
Brian Jackson, Brigham Young University, "Toward Greater Authenticity:
Why and How the Technical Writing Simulation Was Created"
Jonathan Balzotti, Brigham Young University, "Comparative Analysis:
How the Simulation Influenced the Rhetorical Effectiveness of the
Written Product"
7-Institutional and Professional

A.30 	 The Extracurriculum within Our Walls
	

This panel interweaves the extracurriculum and graduate instruction in an
MA-only English department.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Amy Flessert, Northern Virginia Community College
Speakers: Suellynn Duffey, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Jennifer Alexander, University of Missouri-Saint Louis
Jeanne Allison, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Kim Rankin, University of Missouri-St. Louis
Respondents: Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University
Lauren Obermark, University of Missouri-St. Louis

74

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 74

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

8-Taking Action

A.31 	 Resources for Teaching Writing to Support
#BlackLivesMatter at Predominantly White Institutions
	

Session will provide attendees with pedagogical resources to decenter white
norms and challenge unexamined white supremacy at PWIs.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Todd Craig, Medgar Evers College, CUNY
Speakers: Timothy R. Dougherty, West Chester University of PA
Randall Cream, West Chester University of PA
Michael Burns, West Chester University of PA
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.32 	 "It Takes Two to Make a Thing Go Right": An Experiment
in Team Teaching an Advanced Composition Course with
Writing in the Disciplines Focus
	

Team teachers of a composition course, along with a former student, discuss
the drawbacks and benefits of this pedagogical approach.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College
Speakers: Thomas Bagwell, University of Mississippi, "‘It Takes Two To
Make a Thing Go Right’": An Experiment in Team Teaching an
Advanced Composition Course with Writing in the Disciplines Focus"
Karla Lyles, University of Mississippi, "‘It Takes Two To Make a Thing
	 Go Right’: An Experiment in Team Teaching an Advanced Composition
Course with Writing in the Disciplines Focus"
7-Institutional and Professional

A.33 	 Professionalizing Graduate Teaching Assistants: How
Advisors Support Successful Writing Instruction
	

This session discusses how advisors professionalize GTAs’ pedagogical
practices, leading to a more unified composition program.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Christina Giarrusso, Florida State University
Speakers: Steve Oakey, Virginia Tech
Julie Mengert, Virginia Tech
Kathy Combiths, Virginia Tech
Sheila Carter-Tod, Virginia Tech

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	75

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 75

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.34 	 College Writing in High School: Writing Our Way Out of
Test Culture
	

Delivery of composition within a Title I high school context: how are
identity, transfer, curriculum, collaboration, and access addressed?

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Joan Graham, University of Washington
Speakers: Kristen Jones, Eastside Memorial High School, "Advanced
Placement: Writing Our Way Out of Test Culture"
Aimee Hendrix Soto, University of Texas, Austin Community College,
"Dual Credit: Writing Our Way Out of Test Culture"
Ellen Thibodeaux, Eastside Memorial High School, "Research and
Technical Writing: Writing Our Way Out of Test Culture"
9-Language

A.36 	 Literacy Development and Rhetorical Invention in the
Multilingual Classroom
	

This presentation will define particularly distinguished or like characteristics of rhetorical invention of L1 in L2 composition classes found through
the most recent scholarship on invention.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Barbara L’Eplattenier, University of Arkansas-Little Rock
Speakers: Romana Hinton, University of Tennessee, "Rhetorical Invention
in L2 Composition Classes"
Angela Rounsaville, University of Central Florida, "English Language
Learning Taken-for-Granted"
Yu-Kyung Kang, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Tracing
Literacy across Time and Borders: The Changing Global and Local
Landscape of Study Abroad Experience in U.S. Higher Education"

76

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 76

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

A.37 	 Faculty Developer as Activist: Strategies for Writing
Instructors and WPAs
	

Examining how engagement in faculty development can help composition
instructors and WPAs bring about needed change at their institution.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Irwin Weiser, Purdue University
Speakers: Carol Rutz, Carleton College, "Activating Assessment through
Faculty Development"
Stephen Wilhoit, University of Dayton, "Becoming Active in Faculty
Development: Causes and Effects"
Stacey Sheriff, Colby College, "Think Globally, Act Locally: Using
Faculty & Instructional Development to Support International
Students"
9-Language

A.38 	 Healing the Split between Language and Writing:
Practical Advice for the Composition Classroom
	

This panel will apply cognitive and functional approaches to language to
the teaching of writing.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Craig Hancock, University at Albany
Speakers: Rei Noguchi, California State University, Northridge, "Core
Writing Principles and Iconicity: Integrating the Small and Large in
Writing Instruction"
Debra Myhill, University of Exeter, "Writing with Grammar in Mind"
Stella Wang, University of Rochester, "Corpus Approaches: A Case Study
of Personal Pronouns"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	77

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 77

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B Sessions: 12:15–1:30 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
B.39 	 Taking Action Workshop: Framing Messages
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English

B.40 	 Taking Action Workshop: Influencing Policy
Refer to page 18 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speakers: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community
College
Lori Shorr, Temple University

Poster Sessions
Hilton Sky Walk, Level Two
A Quantitative Analysis of Writing [Center] Leadership and Locality
We report data from a quantitative study of writing centers’ leadership, staff,
and campus locations using ~5,000 institution websites.
Jessica Reyes, Towson University
Kelsey Hixson-Bowles, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
A Small School with a Changed Writing Culture: Taking Action through
Faculty Development
This interactive digital and print poster session will highlight the transformative
impact of a campus-wide faculty development program.
Erin Pushman, Limestone College
Reed Chewning, Limestone College

78

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 78

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Both Peers and Teachers: Improving Experiences for Course-Embedded
Writing Tutors
Proposes research-based emerging model for understanding personal and professional development of course-embedded peer writing tutors.
Brandy Alba, Concordia University Texas
Creating Successful International L2 Writers from the Basics
This poster illustrates two scaffolding processes for L2 writing transfer in
knowledge and skills as well as the student dispositions.
Scott Chiu, California Lutheran University
Marthe Russell, The University of Vermont
Dispelling Myths, Encouraging Communication: Exploring Faculty
Perspectives on Writing across Campus
Exploring faculty perspectives on writing in their disciplines and about FYW.
Lauren Connolly, Lewis-Clark State College
Literacy Narratives, Genre Awareness, and Knowledge Transfer: A Case
Study
Poster presenting a case study of using literacy narratives and genre study to promote knowledge transfer in first-year writing courses.
Whitney James, Emerson College
Rubrics in Action: Students and Instructors Collaborating in Writing
Assessment
This presentation will exemplify the step-by-step process used when students
and instructor collaboratively create rubrics.
Lizbett Tinoco, University of Texas at El Paso
So Superman Walks into a Writing Center: Translingual Approach
Implementation for Both Earthlings and Non-Earthlings
The poster presents alternative strategies to assist multilingual writers in a writing
center setting by using a translingual approach.
Titcha Ho, Indiana University of Pennsylvania/Baruch College, CUNY
Deepti Dhir, Baruch College, CUNY
Testing Reading-Preview Techniques to Encourage Student Reading
The poster displays student survey results in response to pre-reading activities to
find a technique to encourage student-reading completion.
Elizabeth Grbavcich, University of Wisconsin-Superior

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	79

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 79

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

The Literate Citizen-Soldier: Threat, Anxiety, and the Creation of Federal
K-12 Education Reform
My project explores the role anxiety and threat have had on 20th century K-12
reform and the impact felt in the composition classroom.
Sarah Fish, University of Houston
Writing for Creative Repurposing: Assessing Transferability in a New
Writing Course
This research assesses writing transfer from First-Year Composition to Advanced
Composition, with an emphasis on learner dispositions.
Laura Davis, Red Deer College

11-Research

B.01 	 The National Census of Writing Database and Diversity in
Writing Programs (CWPA-Sponsored Session)
	

This roundtable asks the question of how to use data collected through the
National Census of Writing to take action and make change.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College
Speakers: Caitlin Holmes, George Mason University
Brandon Fralix, Bloomfield College
Jill Gladstein, Swarthmore College
Respondent: Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona

80

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 80

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

B.02 	 Queer Action in the Extracurriculum
	

This panel explores queer action via extracurricular sites of writing,
rhetoric, and literacy development.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Christine Gregory, Florida International University
Speakers: Pamela VanHaitsma, Old Dominion University, "Romantic
Correspondence as Queer Extracurriculum"
Laura Tetreault, University of Louisville, "The Digital Extracurriculum:
Online Circulation as Queer Rhetorical Practice"
Alexandra Cavallaro, California State University, "Between Women: The
Curriculum of Coming Out as Queer Rhetorical Pedagogy"
3-Community, Civic & Public

B.03 	 Writing Sustainability in the College Class: Reimagining
Communities through Action
	

Challenging boundaries through trans-disciplinary communication across
academic siloes through frameworks of composition and sustainability.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Betsy Hall, Long Island University-Brooklyn
Speakers: Halle Neiderman, Kent State University
Melanie Knowles, Kent State University
Barbara George, Kent State University
8-Taking Action

B.04 	 Whose Writing? For What Purpose?: Taking Action with
Writing about (Multilingual) Writing
	

This panel explores the intersection of a translingual approach and WAW
pedagogy as a place to (re)define "good writing."

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Katherine Silvester, Indiana University
Speakers: Jason Montgomery, Boise State University
Emily Simnitt, University of Oregon
Daniel Wilber, Boise State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	81

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 81

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

5-History

B.05 	 Histories of Action: Revisiting Composition’s Past to
Understand Composition’s Present
	

This panel brings together four archival recovery projects in composition
studies coalescing around significant historical literacy events.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Gail Hemmeter, Bryn Mawr College
Speakers: Amy Wan, Queens College, CUNY, "College Writing and the
Post-War Legacy of Access and Aspiration"
Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "With ‘Increased
Dignity and Importance’: Re-Historicizing Charles Roberts and the
Illinois Decision of 1956"
Dahliani Reynolds, Roger Williams University, "Before Dartmouth: Basic
Issues in English"
Shannon Stimpson, Pennsylvania State University, "A Liberal or Practical
	 Education? The Land-Grant Model and Composition Studies at the
Pennsylvania State College 1895 to 1928"
6-Information Technologies

B.06 	 A Digital Alphabet Soup: MOOCs, DLNs, and GNLEs
	

This panel explores innovations in composing in MOOCs and new media
classrooms through personal and global learning environments.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Thomas Hemmeter, Arcadia University
Speakers: Daniel Schafer, Bedford/St. Martin’s, "EveryWhenWhere and
Propitious PlaceTimeliness: Postmodern Kairos and Veillance in the
New Media Classroom"
Zsuzsanna Palmer, Grand Valley State University, "Beyond Hyphenation:
Identity Representation in a Globally Networked Learning Environment"
Jason Tham, University of Minnesota, "Genres in the MOOCology of
Writing: A Return to Social Action"
Jessica Gordon, Virginia Commonwealth University, "Audience and
Connectivist Learning in an Undergraduate cMOOC: A Call for New
Strategies to Teach Multimodal Composition"
Bonnie Boaz, Virginia Commonwealth University, "Audience and Connectivist Learning in an Undergraduate cMOOC: A Call for New Strategies to Teach Multimodal Composition"
Paul Muhlhauser, McDaniel College, "EveryWhenWhere and Propitious
PlaceTimeliness: Postmodern Kairos and Veillance in the New Media
Classroom"

82

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 82

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

B.07 	 Rethinking Teaching and Learning Practices for Diverse
Populations in the University: A Roundtable on Taking
Pedagogical and Administrative Action
	

Multilingual student advocacy through transdisciplinary professional
development, pedagogical initiatives, and administrative action.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Linda Henriksen, Kansas State University
Speakers: Sarah Elizabeth Snyder, Arizona State University
Greer Murphy, Woodbury University
Norah Fahim, University of Washington
Brooke Ricker, Pennsylvania State University
Katherine Daily O’Meara, Arizona State University
Dan Zhu, University of Washington
Respondent: Shawna Shapiro, Middlebury College
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.08 	 Stories That Matter: Student Documentaries as Impactful
Collaborative Writing
	

"Stories" discusses creating documentaries as a strategy for collaborative
student writing and projects that act for social justice movements.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Noel Holton, Farmingdale State College, SUNY
Speakers: Cait Ryan, Michigan State University, "Stories That Matter:
Student Documentaries as Impactful Collaborative Writing"
Mirabeth Braude, Michigan State University, "Stories That Matter: Student
Documentaries as Impactful Collaborative Writing"
Rachel Little, Michigan State University, "Stories That Matter: Student
Documentaries as Impactful Collaborative Writing"
9-Language

B.09 	 "The Accent’s on Me": Agency, Personal Narrative, and
the L2 Writer
	

These panelists explore issues of agency for L2 writers across various contexts and genres.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Peggy Huey, University of Guam
Speakers: Jelena Runic, Johns Hopkins University, "Where Is the I? East
Asian Student Writers and U.S. Personal Narratives"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	83

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 83

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Robert Affeldt, Adams State University, "The Problem of Agency:
Searching for the Seeds of Invention in Material Lives"
Dora Cheng, The Ohio State University, "Writing with an Accent: L2
Writers’ Authorial Identity and Silenced Voice in Academic Writing"
Cynthia DeRoma, University of Connecticut, "Where Is the I? East Asian
Student Writers and U.S. Personal Narratives"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

B.10	 Labeling, Naming, and Visualizing Health and Illness:
How Food Labels, FDA Reports, and Ebola Charts Can
Help Teach Rhetorical Analysis
	

This panel answers the call to move writing toward particular actions in the
technical communication classroom, through the proposal-writing process,
and the ways in which the design choices that technical communicators
make when constructing data visualizations shape risk perception in transcultural communicative contexts.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Joanna Johnson, University of Miami
Speakers: Candice Welhausen, University of Delaware
Susan Popham, University of Memphis
Erin Trauth, University of South Florida
11-Research

B.11 	 Time to Take Stock: What We Can (and Can’t) Learn from
Current CHAT Methodology in Writing Studies Research
	

Origins of cultural-historical activity theory are examined; five respondents
weigh its suitability for current research in Writing Studies.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Dylan Dryer, University of Maine
Speaker: Clay Spinuzzi, University of Texas at Austin
Respondents: Russel Durst, University of Cincinnati
Mya Poe, Northeastern University
David Russell, Iowa State University
Carolyn R. Miller, North Carolina State University
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III
Davida Charney, University of Texas at Austin

84

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 84

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Research

B.12 	 Citation Practice, Documentation Style, and Scholarly
Writing: New Possibilities and New Frameworks
	

This session is designed to encourage discussion of the ways that roles of
and needs for citation formats such as MLA style are changing.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Kathleen Fitzpatrick, Modern Language Association
Speakers: John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington, "What to
‘Mark’ and What to Leave ‘Unmarked’: The MLA Guidelines’ Role
in Constructing Histories of Scholarship"
Daniel Anderson, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
"(Re)Figuring Citation: Metaphors, Performance, and Transformative
Use."
Bonnie Lenore Kyburz, Lewis University, "How Do I Cite the Stephen
Hawking Hologram?"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.13 	 Theorizing Responsive Action: Sensate Engagement,
Critical Expressivism, and Rhetorical Gaslighting
	

Proposes feminist response frameworks for myriad student composing
practices and considers dismissive responses to women’s life writing.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Mike Kelly, Champlain College
Speakers: Amy Robillard, Illinois State University, "Rhetorical Gaslighting:
Denying and Dismissing Women’s Experience-Based Writing"
Londie Martin, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Remix and Sensate
Engagement: Toward Feminist Practices for Composing with and
Responding to Sound"
Crystal Fodrey, Moravian College, "A Call for Critical Expressivist
Response in the Undergraduate Creative Nonfiction Workshop"
13-Theory

B.14 	 Detect, Elect, Connect: Instructional Perspectives and
Activities for Enabling Transfer
	

This panel will discuss approaches that can enable transfer, including selfefficacy, performance, imitation, and self-directed learning.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Irene Clark, California State University, Northridge, "Fostering
Genre Transfer through Imitation and Modeling"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	85

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 85

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Robert Terry, Armstrong State University, "Recognizing Dispositions: The
Social Identity of Transfer"
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, "Learning How to Learn to Write:
Transfer When Writing Is a TooI"
Respondent: Lisa Tremain, Occidental College, "The Key of Self-Efficacy: How Facilitative Dispositions Help "
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.15 	 Partnering with Institutional Archivists: Exploring the
Archives as Potential Sites for Undergraduate Research
and Creative Nonfiction Writing
	

This session will explore partnerships with institutional archivists to develop models for archives projects in undergraduate classes.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University
Speakers: Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, "Opening the
Archives to Undergraduates: The Potential of the Archives in Creative
Nonfiction Writing Courses"
Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, "Opening the Archives to
Undergraduates: The Potential of the Archives in First-Year Writing
Courses"
14-Writing Programs

B.16 	 Reform in Writing Center Practices Based on
Comprehensive Studies
	

This session explores how longitudinal data can be used to influence writing
center practices.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Carie King, Taylor University, Ball State University
Speakers: Jo Mackiewicz, Iowa State University, "A Corpus-Driven Approach to Analyzing Writing Center Conferences: Findings and Implications for Tutor Training"
Roger Austin, Georgia State University, "Taking Action through the
Archives: Standardizing Writing Center Archive Profiles for Praxis,
Knowledge, and Continuity"
J. Christian Tatu, Lafayette College, "De-Centering Academic Prose in the
Writing Center"
Isabelle Thompson, Auburn University, "A Corpus-Driven Approach to
Analyzing Writing Center Conferences: Findings and Implications for
Tutor Training"

86

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 86

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

B.17 	 Basic Writing at Community Colleges: Redesigning
Curriculum and Professional Development
	

These papers focus on curricular and professional development innovations
for community college students and faculty.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Speakers: Miriam Moore, Lord Fairfax Community College, "Redesigning
Professional Development for Community College Faculty"
Margaret Bertucci Hamper, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Basic
Students or Basic Writers? Complicating the College-Readiness
Model"
Susan Gabriel, Community College of Baltimore County, "What Are We
Waiting For? A Manifesto to Create and Scale Accelerated Basic
Writing "On-Ramps""
8-Taking Action

B.18 	 Local Transformations, Local Publics: Actualizing through
Activism
	

This panel looks at writing’s roles and forms in specific contexts of local
community action.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Kunka, Francis Marion University
Speakers: Diana Hines, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Taking
Action: ‘Pop-Up’ Writing in the Rural Spaces"
Kevin Janak, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Geo-Mapping:
Displaying Struggle, Taking Action"
Rebecca McKee, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Witnessing
History, Taking Action: Promoting Conscientization through
Multimodal Composing"
Donna Dunbar-Odom, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Taking
Action, Maintaining Action: Rhetorical Lessons from a Community
Garden"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	87

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 87

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

B.19 	 Writing Black Lives to Matter: Civic and Digital
Engagements to Sustain the Revolution
	

These panelists explore the power of civic and digital activism to fight for
African-American lives.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Lyndsey Lefebvre, Long Beach City College
Speakers: Julie Nelson, North Carolina Central University, "Revising
Knowledge: Writing Wikipedia Articles at an HBCU"
Alli Hammond, University of Cincinnati, "Keep on Tweeting for a Free
World: The Evolution of Hashtag Activism"
Brandon Erby, Penn State University, "Learning Is an All-Black Thing:
The Literacies and Pedagogies of Black Educational Institutions and
Communities during the Civil Rights and Black Power/Arts Movements"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.20 	 Perspectives on Preparation and Performance:
A Qualitative Study of College Students’ Approaches
to Writing
	

This panel presents results from a study comparing students who took FYC
in college to those with pre-college AP or dual-enrollment credit.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee
Speakers: Ereck Jarvis, University of Tennessee, "What Do We Know
about AP, DE, and FYC Writers? A Review of Past Research"
Jacqueline Kerr, University of Tennessee, "‘My Writing Abilities?’:
Students’ Reflections on Their College Writing Preparedness and
Practices"
Kirsten Benson, University of Tennessee, "Are There Differences between
AP, DE and College FYC Preparation? Students’ Self Reports of
College Writing Practices and Attitudes"

88

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 88

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.21 	 I See What You Mean: Using Infographics to Inspire
Action across Diverse Curricula
	

Teachers in Ed, FYC, and Professional Writing share strategies for using
Infographics as rhetorically-informed, powerful genres for action.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: John McKinnis, Buffalo State, SUNY
Speakers: Allison Walker, High Point University
Georgeanna Sellers, High Point University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.22 	 Potentially Moving from Margin to Center: A Report on
Arizona State University Writing Programs’ ProMod
Interdisciplinary Collaborations
	

A report on the success and/or failures of the interdisciplinary ProMod
cohorts developed for Fall 2015 FYC classes by ASU Writing Programs.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University
Speakers: Jennifer Waters, Arizona State University
Sarah Young, Arizona State University
Sarah Dean, Arizona State University
9-Language

B.23 	 Rhetorical Practices and Language Tensions
	

This panel traces cultural and rhetorical contexts of language variations to
discuss language tensions and pedagogical implications.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Speakers: Amanda Hayes, Ohio University, "Our Past, Our Present, Our
Future: History and Sovereignty for Appalachian Rhetoric"
Meaghan Elliott, University of New Hampshire, "Defining ‘Thug Life’ in
a White Kitchen"
Lamiyah Bahrainwala, The University of Texas at Austin, "Just Awareness
Isn’t Enough: AAVE Findings Writing Instructors Should Know"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	89

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 89

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

10-Professional and Technical Writing

B.24 	 Medical Rhetoric and Scientific Communication
	

This panel provides four case studies of negotiating public health crises via
medical scientific, and digital rhetorics.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: John Misak, Queensborough Community College
Speakers: Ryan Eichberger, University of Minnesota, "Negotiating Crisis
in the Magic Land: Blogging, Science Communication, and the
Disneyland Measles Outbreak"
Brandon Strubberg, Texas Tech University, "Spurring Patients to Action:
Patient-Centered Communication in Diabetes Manuals"
Russell Kirkscey, Texas Tech University, "A Rhetorical Framework for the
Analysis of Patient Decision Aids"
Kyle Vealey, Purdue University, "Storytelling Failure in the Vale of Leven:
How a Bacterial Outbreak at a Rural Hospital Became a Wicked
Problem"
11-Research

B.25 	 Research as Social Action: Situating Critical Discourse
Analysis within Rhetoric and Composition Studies
	

Using CDA as a theoretical and methodological framework, panelists
demonstrate how research and critique of writing can enact social change.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Tyler Evans-Tokaryk, University of Toronto Mississauga,
"Exploring the Discourses of English as an International Language and
Academic Writing Instruction"
Caitin Quatmann, University of Missouri, "Understanding Student-Writer
Identity and Writing Course Placement"
Natalie Malin, Texas Woman’s University, "Empowering Students by
Addressing the Unspoken"
Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Articulating the
Values of Writing Across the Curriculum"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.26 	 Storying as Action: Using Narrative to Co-Create Identity
in the Writing Classroom
	

Through active and reciprocal storytelling, this participatory session
explores ways shared storying can create identity in the classroom.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three

90

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 90

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Chair: Sonja Montague, College of Southern Maryland
Speakers: Charlesia McKinney, University of Kansas, "Pedagogical Strategies for Integrating Storying in the Writing Classroom"
Cynthia Fields, Colgate University, "Storying in Reciprocal Spaces: Rhetorical Listening as Identity Creation"
Katie Elliott, University of Kansas, "Tell Me a Story: Authentic Storying
as Narrative Identity Construction"
13-Theory

B.27 	 Storytelling as a New Pathway to Social Justice
	

This session explores how various means of storytelling can help facilitate
collaboration, survival, and healing.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Clare Murray, Texas State University
Speakers: Kaia Simon, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
"Literacy, Agency, and Rewriting Hmong Womanhood"
Santos Ramos, Michigan State University, "La Lucha Sigue: Collaborating
with Xicano & Social Justice Rhetorics"
Emilie Koenig, University of Houston, "‘Listen to My Feet and I Will
Tell You the Story of My Life’: Recovering Tap Dance as Rhetorical
Practice"
Donny Winter, University of Central Missouri, "Trauma Recovery: The
Medicine of Storytelling in Two-Spirit Poetry"
14-Writing Programs

B.28 	 Building Bases for Action: Re/Mapping a Mandated
Writing Program Redesign
	

Participatory media is used to represent the complexity of program revision.
The audience joins in assets mapping and networking for action.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Olmos, California State University, Los Angeles
Speakers: William C. Kurlinkus, The University of Oklahoma, "Building
Bases for Action: Re/Mapping a Mandated Writing Program Redesign"
Susan Kates, University of Oklahoma, "Building Bases for Action:
Re/Mapping a Mandated Writing Program Redesign"
Sandra Tarabochia, University of Oklahoma, "Building Bases for Action:
Re/Mapping a Mandated Writing Program Redesign"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	91

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 91

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

B.29 	 Interrogating (Cross)Disciplinarity: Personal and
Professional Identities at Work
	

In this session presenters explore the implications of disciplinary identity
for students and faculty in multiple contexts within higher education.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Megan O’Neill, NJIT
Speakers: Mark Hannah, Arizona State University, "The Neglected Side
of ‘Co’: A Case for Repositioning English Studies for Transdisciplinary
Collaboration"
Lane Fletcher, University of Houston, "Writing Transfer Students into the
University"
Maggie Werner, Hobart & William Smith Colleges, "Breaking Up with
Rhet-Comp: Confessions of a Disciplinary Philanderer"
Daniel Bommarito, Bowling Green State University, "The Neglected Side
of ‘Co’: A Case for Repositioning English Studies for Transdisciplinary
Collaboration"
Kathleen Jernquist, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, "A Pedagogy of Transfer:
A Writing Center’s Rhetorical Language and Its Strategy for Action
across Campus"
8-Taking Action

B.30 	 Addressing the "Practical and Critical" in Translingual
Approaches to Writing Strategies for Action
	

"Practical and critical" approaches to translingualism in pedagogy, practice,
and assessment.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Rachel Griffo, Community College of Allegheny County,
"Addressing the ‘Practical and Critical’ in Translingual Approaches to
Writing Strategies for Action"
Speakers: Sarah Blazer, Lehman College, CUNY, "Translingual Pedagogies
in Writing Center Spaces"
Kathleen Hynes, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "‘Good Writing’ and
Translingual Rubric Design"
Melissa Lee, Canton, SUNY, "Pedagogical Paradox: Reconciling WEs and
Translingualism"

92

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 92

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.31 	 Inspiring Action by Enabling Agency in Interdisciplinary
Advanced Writing Courses
	

Panelists connect advanced composition courses, interdisciplinary writing
instruction, student agency, and professional and civic activities.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Jeanine Rauch, The University of Mississippi, "Basic Writing
Techniques Lead to Inspired Students"
Speakers: Alice Myatt, The University of Mississippi, University,
"Agency? Voice? Action!"
Rachel Johnson, The University of Mississippi, "Balancing Acts:
Interdisciplinary Partnerships through ‘Ways of Doing"
6-Information Technologies

B.32 	 Making Meaning: The Maker Movement and Writing
Studies
	

This panel explores the way makerspaces provide strategies for action that
can benefit the study, theorization, and teaching of writing.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Charles Paine, University of New Mexico
Speakers: David Sheridan, Michigan State University, "Rhetorical
Objects: Making as a Strategy for Action"
Kyle Bohunicky, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Game-MakerSpaces:
Teaching Compositional Action through Digital Game Design"
Blake Watson, University of Nevada, "Material Literacies: Prototyping
and Tinkering With Writing and Making"
Ann Shivers-McNair, University of Washington, "Writing in Action: What
We Can Learn about Transfer, Uptakes, and Ethics from Makerspaces"
8-Taking Action

B.33 	 The Promises and Perils of DIY Activism in Networked
Digital Publics: Action, Agency, and Intervention
	

This panel addresses theoretical, practical, and pedagogical implications of
digitally mediated activism in networked publics.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Sarah Parker, Morrisville State College
Speakers: Dustin Edwards, Miami University, "Tactical Action in the Case
of Hashtag Hijacks: Circulation, Intervention, and the Political Work of
the Digital Bricoleur"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	93

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 93

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Stephanie Hedge, University of Illinois Springfield, "A Pedagogy of
Action in Digitally Mediated Networks: A Heuristic for Anonymous
vs. Non-anonymous Modes of Writing in the Classroom"
Bridget Gelms, Miami University, "The Pervasiveness of Digital Harassment
in the Lives of Vocal Women: Tracing the Evolution of Terminology"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.34 	 Writing Transfer in Three STEM Contexts: Teacher
Education in Physical Science, Career Preparation in
Animal Science, and Cookbook Labs in Natural Science
	

Research from two institutions: Courses where curricula, pedagogy, lab
reports impact both forward- and backward-reaching transfer.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Christine Photinos, National University
Speakers: Daniel Kenzie, Purdue University, "Simulating Science: Lab
Reports, Transfer, and Career Preparation"
Bradley Dilger, Purdue University, "Remixing the Cookbook Lab:
Encompassing Transitions in Science Labs"
Redina Herman, Western Illinois University, "Teacher Education: An
Integrated Approach to Lab Reports"
Neil Baird, Western Illinois University, "Remixing the Cookbook Lab:
Encompassing Transitions in Science Labs"

B.35 	 Remembering Kent: Taking Action on Literacy Policies
	

In this session, four policy experts consider the contributions made by and
with former NCTE Executive Director Kent Williamson to literacy policy.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Speakers: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, "Linking Policy
and Research"
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, "The Other Half of
Literacy: Creating the National Day on Writing in the Context of
Policymaking"
Barbara Cambridge, National Council of Teachers of English, "A Perfect
Legacy: The Kent D. Williamson Policy and Advocacy Center"
Leslie Patterson, Human Systems Dynamics Institute, "Building the
National Center for Literacy Education"

94

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 94

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

13-Theory

B.36 	 The Complexity of Agency in the Composition Classroom
	

This session explores feminist praxis within composition studies as applied
to women as rhetors.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Davida Pines, Boston University
Speakers: Justin Hayes, Quinnipiac University, "A Feminist Praxis for
Composition Studies"
Cactus May, Ohio University, "We Have Always Been Complex: Toward a
Complexity Praxis"
Martha McKay Canter, Florida State University, "Rhetoric on a Slant: A
Strategy for Women as Marginalized Rhetors"
7-Institutional and Professional

B.37 	 Enacting Career Diversity in Rhetoric and Composition:
Different Pathways for a Professional Life with a PhD in
Rhetoric and Composition
	

This panel explores professional pathways for rhet-comp PhDs, including
community-college, university-administration, and industry positions.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Gail Pizzola, University of Texas at San Antonio
Speakers: Ruijie Zhao, Parkland College, "An Unexpected Step into an
Expected Career: Looking Back at my PhD Education from the Vantage
Point of a Community College Career"
Joanna Schmidt, Texas Christian University, "Working Definitions: Alt-Ac,
Identities, and Opportunities"
Anita Furtner Archer, Raytheon, "An Unexpected Outcome: Building a
Career Path with Diverse Experiences"
Respondent: Amy Kimme Hea, University of Arizona, "New Roles, New
Responsibilities: Understanding the Roles & Complexities of PhD
Programs in Career Diversity"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.38 	 Response in Action: Negotiating the Intentions of
Students, Teachers, and Peer Reviewers
	

This interactive session delves into the complexities of intentions and ideologies in peer, writer, and teacher response to students’ texts.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Nancy Sommers, Harvard University
Respondents: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	95

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 95

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C Sessions: 1:45–3:00 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
C.40 	 Taking Action Workshop: Building Alliances
	

Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Sarah Scanlon, Arkansas State Director for Bernie 2016

C.41 	 Taking Action Workshop: Making Action Plans
Refer to page 19 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University

8-Taking Action

C.01 	 Taking Action to Build and Improve Writing Programs
	

Panelists explore how to design, develop, and sustain locally-responsive
writing programs.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Stacy Rice, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Andres Bautista, Assistant, "Assessment of Academic Writing
Skills as Individual and Institutional Actions"
Paula Gonzalez-Alvarez, Universidad de Chile, "The Creation of a Writing
Program as an Opportunity for Discussion about University Writing in
Chile"
Robin Gallaher, Northwest Missouri State University, "Rules of
Engagement: What Students Have Taught Us in Five Years of a
New Curriculum Built on Engagement"
Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University, "Beyond Best-Laid Plans:
Why and How a Writing Program Should Facilitate an Interdisciplinary
Faculty Writing Boot Camp"
Maria Isabel Patiño, UniAndes, "Assessment of Academic Writing Skills
as Individual and Institutional Actions"

96

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 96

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.02 	 If You Teach It, They Will Learn: Effects of Explicit Style
Instruction in and beyond the Writing Class
	

A study of two approaches to style instruction shows that it does affect students’ writing, though not exactly as one might expect.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska Omaha
Speakers: Star Medzerian, Nova Southeastern University
Keith Rhodes, Hastings College
Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska Omaha
2-Basic Writing

C.03 	 Nothing Basic about It: Taking Action for Student
Success
	

This presentation showcases an Enhanced FYC, replacing remedial writing
at one institution, and invites the audience to imagine their own.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Anne Riecken, Seminole State College
Speakers: Maureen Jecrois, Bridgewater State University, "Doing the
Write Thing"
Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, "When Basic Writing Isn’t So
Basic"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, "Whose Language
Counts?"
Nicole Williams, Bridgewater State University, "Struggle as Pedagogy for
At-Risk Writers"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.04 	 Connecting Students to Community in First-Year
Composition
	

This session explores multiple dynamic collaborations between first-year
composition students and their communities.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: R. Joseph Rodriguez, The University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Brian Harrell, University of Akron, "Engaging Community in
First-Year Composition: The Stories of the Dead and Dying"
Paul Resnick, Illinois Central College, "Bridging Diversity and Community
Partnerships in First-Year Composition"
Kristen Weinzapfel, North Central Texas College, "Engaging Community
in First-Year Composition: Food Rhetoric in Action"
Kassia Shaw, Waubonsee Community College & DePaul University,
"Bridging Diversity and Community Partnerships in First-Year
Composition"
CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	97

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 97

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

4-Creative Writing

C.05 	 Action MFAs: Strategies for Incorporating Creative
Writing Pedagogies in the Composition Classroom
	

This panel offers concrete strategies for incorporating creative writing pedagogy into the lessons for the first-year writing classroom.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Elsa Rogers, Hodges University
Speakers: Kara Mae Brown, University of California Santa Barbara
Kat Gonso, Northeastern University
Aaron Block, Northeastern University
Anne Wheeler, Springfield College, "What I Learned in MFA School, or
How I Learned to Teach the ‘I’"
5-History

C.06 	 Recovering Writing Center Histories and Discourses
	

This panel recovers artifacts of writing center instruction, including
histories of center directors and early uses of technology in these centers.
Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Lee Tesdell, Minnesota State University, Mankato
Speakers: Alexander Landfair, New York University, "Technological
‘Solutionism’ in the Writing Center"
Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia University, "‘Raising Hell’: The Roots of
Multiliteracy Instruction"
Lee Tesdell, Minnesota State University, Mankato, "Pioneer on the Iowa
Prairie: Carrie Stanley and Her Writing Center Strategies at the State
University of Iowa"
6-Information Technologies

C.07 	 Women’s Ways of Practicing Digital Communities
	

This panel presents three case studies of women’s literacy and rhetorical
practices in digital spaces.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Melody Pickle, Kaplan University
Speakers: Bree Gannon, Michigan State University, "What Do You Dream
Of: Identity and Social Literacy Practices of Religious Young Women
on Pinterest"
Jennifer McVeigh, Purdue University, "She Is Worth Far More Than Rubies:
Creating a Self through Online Narrative Writing"
Rebekah Sims, Purdue University, "She Is Worth Far More Than Rubies:
Creating a Self through Online Narrative Writing"
Kainat Abidi, St. John’s University, "Silence as Defense: The Compositional
Considerations of Women on Social Media"

98

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 98

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

C.08 	 Acting Out: The Legacy of Hephzibah Roskelly and
Elizabeth Chiseri-Strater
	

This roundtable will explore a legacy of mentoring, social action, and
feminism of two of the field’s leaders.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Joe Sample, University of Houston-Downtown
Speakers: Kathleen J. Ryan, Montana State University, "Working at Your
Life: An Ethics of Responsibility"
Rebecca Jones, University of Tennessee, "Bird Groups: Collaborating with
Heart"
Janet Bean, University of Akron, "Rhetorical Triangles and Ethnographic
Triangulation: The Importance of Thirds"
Marsha Lee Baker, Western Carolina University, "Why Do I Teach
Peaceably? Acting out Nonviolent Means and Ends"
Jackie Grutsch Mckinney, Ball State University
9-Language

C.09 	 Translation, Linguistic Memory, and the Impact of
(English-Only) Language Policy
	

These panelists explore different sites of trans-languaging and policymaking.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Dagmar Scharold, University of Houston-Downtown
Speakers: Brittany Ramirez, UTRGV, "American Linguistic Memory &
the Implications for First-Year Composition Courses"
Katherine Flowers, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "Local
Policies and National Networks: Text Histories of Two County-Level
English Only Policies"
Terence Daniel McEneny, University of Texas at El Paso, "Translation as
Composing"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	99

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 99

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.10 	 Multimodal Composition as a Strategic Approach to
First-Year Writing
	

Critical perspectives on how multimodal composition might be leveraged
strategically to promote and expand the values and outcomes of FYC.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Rhonda Schlatter, Mesa Community College
Speakers: Karla Saari Kitalong, Michigan Technological University,
"Multimodality as a Gateway into and out of FYC: Or, Remix as
Transfer"
Lauren Bowen, University of Massachusetts, "Multimodal + Composition:
Searching for the Fit, Not the Fix"
Abraham Romney, Michigan Technological University, "Border Perspectives
on Expanding Definitions of Literacy through Multimodal Composition"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.11 	 Peer Perceptions: Conferencing and Feedback
	

These papers examine conferencing and peer reviewing practices, using
both case studies and broad data sets from first-year writing courses.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Michael Cripps, University of New England
Speakers: Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University, "Interrogating Peer
Response as ‘Proxy’: Reframing and Reimagining Peer Review as
Connected Practice"
Lisa Swan, University of Maryland, "Reexamining Writing Conferences:
Underrepresented Student Perspectives"
Michael Cripps, University of New England, "Peers Take Action in
Writing: A Content Analysis of Peer Feedback in the Composition
Classroom"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

C.12 	 Morals, Values, Emotions, and Cultures: Investigating
Identity in Professional Communication Contexts
	

The panelists highlight the complex development, negotiation, and
integration of identities in diverse professional communication contexts
(military, religious, intercultural, and classroom).

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Robin Gosser Sexton, Auburn University
Speakers: Sheeba Varkey, St. John’s University, "Veterans’ Move to the
Workplace: Authorship and Identity in Military and Civilian Resumes"

100

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 100

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Annie Kelvie, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "Writing in the
Religious Professions: A Case Study"
Theresa (Tess) Evans, Miami University, "Emotions Suppressed/Emotions
Evoked: The Role of Pathos in Writing for Pragmatic Action"
Sam Dragga, Texas Tech University, "Moralities, Values, and Robotics:
Integrating Theories of Intercultural Communication"
8-Taking Action

C.13 	 Making Meaningful Writing Happen: Action Plans for
Writing Advocacy
	

Based on findings from the Meaningful Writing Project and other key
studies, participants will develop action plans for writing advocacy.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Anne Ellen Geller, St. John’s University, "Making Meaningful
Writing Happen: Action Plans for Writing Advocacy"
Speakers: Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, "Making Meaningful
Writing Happen: Action Plans for Writing Advocacy"
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, "Making Meaningful Writing
Happen: Action Plans for Writing Advocacy"
11-Research

C.14 	 Representing Authorship: Plagiarism, Inclusion, and
(Academic) Citizenship
	

This panel offers critical research-based analyses of academic citation
practices and legitimizing discourses.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Ritu Sharma, Kaplan University
Speakers: Diane Kelly-Riley, University of Idaho, "Reference Pages and
	 Citation Practices as Instances of Assessment: A Case Study of Fairness
	 Exploring Representations of Race and Sex in a Writing Studies Journal"
Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "Source Use Across
Genres: Lessons from Extending the Citation Project Methodology"
Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State University of Denver, "How and
When First Year Students’ Understanding of Source Use Develops"
Enrique Paz, Miami University of Ohio, "Language of Documentation:
Immigration and Plagiarism"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	101

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 101

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

13-Theory

C.15 	 Faster, Bigger, Cheaper: Ideologies of Efficiency in the
College Writing Classroom
	

Faster, cheaper—better? The long push for efficiency in writing instruction
and assessment and its consequences for students.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Steve Lamos, University of Colorado-Boulder
Speakers: Paige Hermansen, University of Arkansas, "A Golden Bill of
Goods: The Effects of For-Profit Promotional Discourse on Prospective
Students"
Bonnie Tucker, University of Michigan, "Writing Instruction for Profit?"
Gail Gibson, University of Michigan, "Fix Them Faster: The Long
Influence of Efficiency on Writing Remediation"
James Hammond, University of Michigan, "Variations on a Theme:
Barrett Wendell and the Origins of Efficiency in Writing Assessment"
14-Writing Programs

C.17 	 The Writing Center’s Online Presence
	

In this session the perceptions of the writing center’s online presence are
explored.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Simison, University of Connecticut
Speakers: Anna Worm, Florida State University, "How We Feel about
OWLS"
Courtney Werner, Monmouth University, "Enacting Our Ideologies: How
Our Writing Center Websites (Don’t) Speak for Us"
Lindsay Sabatino, University of North Carolina-Greensboro, "Student
Voice in Strategic Action: Students’ Perspectives of Online Writing
Center Interactions"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.18 	 The Best of Three Worlds: Integrating Writing, Civic
Engagement, and First-Year Experience Programs
	

This panel examines first-year experience programs and strategies for ensuring high-impact outcomes in writing and civic engagement.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Patricia Bizzell, College of the Holy Cross
Speakers: Morgan Reitmeyer, Regis University, "Contemplatives in Action: Creating the First-Year Experience before the First Day of Class"

102

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 102

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

June Johnson Bube, Seattle University, "Framing the Themed Academic
Writing Course as Civic Engagement"
Allen Brizee, Loyola University Maryland, "Civic Writing and #BaltimoreUprising: Health Equity, the Digital Divide, and Assessment in a
First-Year Experience Program"
Respondent: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University
8-Taking Action

C.19 	 Students, Faculty, and Curriculum: Responding to Public
Perception and Public Policy
	

Panelists will describe strategies for reclaiming writing curriculum and
assessment in the face of public misperceptions and legislative accountability measures.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Bradley Smith, Governors State University
Speakers: Susan Bernadzikowski, Cecil College, "The Students beyond
the Stats"
Joanne Addison, University of Colorado, "How the Common Core State
Standards Define What Writing Is and Does for College Composition
Classrooms"
Elizabeth Burmester, Georgia State University, "Changing Perceptions of
Writing: Take Action with Innovative Program Design in the Writing
Major to Influence Public Policy Outside the Classroom"
Jerry Stinnett, Duquesne University, "Writing Outcomes as Strategic
Action: Defining a Good Start Instead of Good Writing in First-Year
Composition"
6-Information Technologies

C.20 	 Action Movies: Filmmaking, Multimodality, and Critical
Pedagogy
	

Four educators offer experiences using filmmaking in multimodal critical
pedagogies to empower students’ identities and compositions.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Kefaya Diab, New Mexico State University
Speakers: Nina Ringer, The College of New Jersey
Kara Jensen, Georgia Military College
Albert Wray, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Kefaya Diab, New Mexico State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	103

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 103

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.21 	 Enacting Information Literacy: Strategies for
Library–Classroom Collaboration

FYC in the library with the question: how should we work with librarians?

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Greta Vollmer, Sonoma State University
Speakers: Alexis Teagarden, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth,
"The Reaction-Recapping a Semester-Long, Experiment in FYCLibrary Collaboration"
Michael Carlozzi, Roger Williams University, "The Action-Framing Information Literacy in FYC and Library Science"
Anicca Cox, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, "The Interaction
Part II-or How Many Sources Does This Class Need?"
9-Language

C.22 	 From Code-Switching to Code-Meshing: Validating the
Brown/Black Voice
	

This presentation looks at aspects of code-meshing and code-switching as
vital tools for the composition course.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Patsy Watts, East Central College
Speakers: Gael Fonken, St Cloud State University, "Opening New Worlds:
¿Can L2 Spanish Literacy Become a WAC Research Goal?"
Kim Hensley Owens, Northern Arizona University, "Toward a Codemeshing Pedagogy: Embracing Students’ ‘Wild Tongues’"
Kay Losey, Grand Valley State University, "The Rhetoric of Written
Code-switching: The Importance of Authorial Agency"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

C.23 	 Designing for Usability and Accessibility
	

Panelists provide strategies for teaching ethical design that fosters usability
and accessibility.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Mindy Williams, Central Oregon Community College
Kimberly Baker, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Boxed Cake Mix
and a Fully Stocked Kitchen: Usability Research Projects can Help
Prepare Students For the Classroom-to-Workplace Transition"

104

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 104

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Thomas Henry, Utah Valley University, "Accessibility, Ethics, and Visual
Design: Taking Action against Design That Hurts People"
Erin Pastore, Merrimack College, "Designing a Wicked Syllabus: Questions
and Potential Actions for an Evolving Professional Genre"
Florence Elizabeth Bacabac, Dixie State University, "Invention Using
Concept Maps for Multimedia and the Web: A Strategic Action Plan"
11-Research

C.24 	 Negotiating Disability Disclosures in Qualitative Writing
Studies Research
	

Panelists reflect on researcher positionality, ethics of disclosure, and
developing qualitative studies of disability and writing.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Laura Metzger, Northwest Vista College
Speakers: Tara Kathleen Wood, Rockford University, "Who Can Write
about Disability?"
Pamela Saunders, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "Employing
	 a Disability Studies Methodology to Rethink Access in Qualitative
Research on Writing"
Allison Hitt, University of Central Arkansas, "Reciprocal Disclosures:
Co-Constructing Knowledge about Disability and Writing"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.25	 Issues in Contemplative Writing Pedagogy
	

This panel examines various facets of contemplative writing pedagogy.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Jason Helms, Texas Christian University
Speakers: Timothy Ballingall, Texas Christian University, "Genevieve
Stebbins and the Rhetoricity of Breathing"
Ashley Rea, Florida State University, "Digital Contemplative Composition:
A Feminist Approach to Inquiry"
Jackie Hoermann, Texas Christian University, "Bringing Bodies into
Relief: Feminist Theory Action in Contemplative Writing Evaluation"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	105

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 105

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

13-Theory

C.26 	 The Legacy of Textual Carnivals
	

This panel marks the 25th anniversary of Susan Miller’s Textual Carnivals
by considering its wide-ranging legacy.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Thomas Girshin, Ithaca College
Speakers: Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
"Textual Carnivals and the Art of Subvocalization"
Jacqueline Rhodes, California State University, San Bernardino, "Susan
Miller and the Queer Subject of Composition"
Thomas Girshin, Ithaca College, "Carnivalesque Pedagogy: Susan Miller
and the Politics of FYW"
Respondent: Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago, "The
Legacy of Susan Miller"
14-Writing Programs

C.27 	 Reaffirming Praxis: Teaching First-Year Composition as
Our Profession’s Highest Calling
	

We are reaffirming praxis to create and ground a first-year curriculum that
helps students complete college and improve their writing.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Elaine Maimon, Governors State University, "Our Scholarly
Strength Comes from the Classroom"
Speakers: Kerri Morris, Governors State University, "Meeting Students
Where They Are Means Discovering Who They Are"
Reinhold Hill, Governors State University, "An Integrative Approach to
General Education: Theory, Best Practices, and Implementation"
Rashidah Jaami’ Muhammad, Governors State University, "Talkin’
Writing: 21st Century Views, Praxis, and the Composing Process"
7-Institutional and Professional

C.28 	 Standardization and Democratization in and of Writing
Programs
	

This panel enacts a debate about whether curricular standardization is
necessary to democratize college writing.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University
Speakers: Cathy Birkenstein, University of Illinois at Chicago
Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University
Gerald Graff, University of Illinois at Chicago
Bruce Herzberg, Bentley University

106

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 106

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

C.29 	 Negotiating Space and Identity: Non-Native EnglishSpeaking Writing Instructors’ Strategies for Action
	

This panel focuses on the experiences of non-native English-speaking
writing instructors and ways to improve their working conditions.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Mariya Tseptsura, University of New Mexico
Speakers: Mariya Tseptsura, University of New Mexico, "Negotiations of
NNESWI’s Teacher Identity: A Case for Reflective Practice"
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, "Taking Action against
Negative Bias in Non-Native English Speaking Writing Instructors’
Course and Faculty Evaluations"
Lilia Joy, Henderson Community College, "Embracing NNES Instructor’s
Identity in a Composition Classroom"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.30 	 Taking Action to Foster Student Responsibility in the
Twenty-First-Century Composition Classroom
	

We will share multimodal best practices to foster student responsibility and
personal action in first-year composition classrooms.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Diana Wolfe, San Jacinto College
Speakers: Brenda Woods, University of Central Missouri
Amanda Drake, University of Central Missouri
Melody Niesen, University of Central Missouri
6-Information Technologies

C.31 	 Difficulty as Possibility in Composing and Teaching with
Digital Media
	

This panel explores how writers encounter difficulty in digital composing
and repositions difficulty as a generative and creative space.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Megan Adams, The University of Findlay
Speakers: Annette Vee, University of Pittsburgh, "Learning to Let Go of
Competence: Digital Media Pedagogy at the Graduate Level"
Derek Van Ittersum, Kent State University, "Workflow Friction: Designing
Writing Processes around Difficulty"
Tim Lockridge, Miami University, "Workflow Friction: Designing Writing
Processes around Difficulty"
Rachael Sullivan, St. Joseph’s University, "Learning from Women’s
Critical Engagement with Unfamiliar Technologies"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	107

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 107

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

C.32 	 Strategies for Building and Sustaining
University-Community Writing Initiatives
	

This panel examines how to sustain community-based writing projects
amid academia’s increasingly conflicted commitment to the public good.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Janelle Adsit, Humboldt State University
Speakers: Veronica House, University of Colorado Boulder,
"Eco-administration and the Engaged Writing Program"
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, ""We Make the Road by
Walking": Integrating Community-Based Writing and Classroom
Instruction in FYC"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Public History as
Rhetorical Intervention: Building a Sustainable Infrastructure by
Reframing Local Public Memory of Community Engagement"
Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, "Join the Club:
Cultivating Student Activism Beyond the ‘One-and-Done’
Community-Writing Course"
8-Taking Action

C.33 	 WAC in the Long Run: Strategies for Sustained Action in
the Face of New and Old Challenges
	

WAC directors at 3 colleges share situated actions to invent new strategies,
refine old ones, and help attendees plan their own initiatives.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University
Speakers: Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, "Building a Programmatic
Ethos among Faculty for WAC/WID [or Building a Programmatic
Ethos among Faculty for Writing across the College]"
David Fisher, Emory University, "Disrupting, Catalyzing, and Connecting
through Digital WID"
Joonna Trapp, Emory University, "Disrupting, Catalyzing, and Connecting
through Digital WID"
Brad Peters, Northern Illinois University, "Representing WAC as a Source
of Sustainable Problem-solving Strategies"

108

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 108

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

C.34 	 Robbing Peter to Pay Paul: Writing Programs, Advocacy,
and NTT in the Bureaucratized Academy
	

As NTT faculty, we attempt curricular reform, but because of institutional
hierarchies, we face roadblocks to our work.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Vincelette, Old Dominion University, "The Ideal Meets
the Real: Writing Center Labor Conditions and a Room of One’s Own"
Speakers: Sarah Appleton, Old Dominion University
Jeffrey Turner, Old Dominion University Research Foundation
11-Research

C.35 	 Research Writing Studies: Issues of Subjectivity,
Neurology, Intellectual Property, and Disciplinarity
	

Panelists report on large-scale research projects examining disciplinary
scholarship.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Lubie Alatriste, CUNY
Speakers: Chalice Randazzo, Eastern Michigan University, "Alliance
Building and Researcher Neutrality in Qualitative Research:
Implications for Human-Subjects Research in Composition"
Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara, "Intellectual
Property Stories in Writing Studies: Results from Two Empirical
Studies on the Effects of IP Legislation, Policies, and Practices"
James P. Purdy, Duquesne University, "Intellectual Property Stories in
Writing Studies: Results from Two Empirical Studies on the Effects of
IP Legislation, Policies, and Practices"
Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, "A Disciplinary Federation or Just a
Big Tent? A Comparative Corpus Analysis from 10 US Writing Studies
Journals"
Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound, "Do We Use ‘I’?
Examining the History of the First Person in Composition Scholarship
Using Corpus Analysis and Personal Interviews"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	109

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 109

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

5-History

C.36 	 Histories on the Move: Activating Institutional Histories in
Writing Centers, Writing Programs, and Beyond
	

This panel showcases the possibilities for "activating" local institutional
histories to engage administrative and advocacy issues.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Sara Alvarez, University of Louisville
Speakers: Celeste Del Russo, University of Arizona, "The Storied Center:
Active Archiving for Writing Center Tutor Training"
Elizabeth Leahy, University of Arizona, "Local Histories and Multilingual
Student Engagement: A Trans-Hemispheric Approach"
Amy Lueck, Santa Clara University, "Activating Allies: Microhistories for
Educational Advocacy"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.37 	 Marginalized Literacies: Let’s Hear Them

This panel looks and validates various examples of marginalized literacies.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Kathy Christie Anders, Texas A&M University
Speakers: Lin Dong, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "The Ignored and
the Marginalized Ones: ‘Digital Divide’ of Literacy Practices and the
Assessment for Older Adults"
Iswari Pandey, California State University, Northridge, "Reconsidering
Literacy as Word Work in Motion"
Tika Lamsal, University of San Francisco, "Literate Identities beyond
Borders: Transformative Literacy Practices of Bhutanese Refugees in
the U.S."
Rachel Lewis, Northeastern University, "Trans*/fixed: Prison Transgender
Literacy as Call to Action"
6-Information Technologies

C.38 	 More Than the Sum: Faculty Collaboration in Designing
and Teaching a Hybrid Writing Course
	

Panelists critically reflect on their experiences collaborating to design and
teach a hybrid writing course.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Kory Ching, San Francisco State University
Speakers: Kory Ching, San Francisco State University, "Better Together:
Faculty Collaboration and the Hybrid Teaching Commons"
Doreen Deicke, San Francisco State University, "Killing Your Darlings:
Setting Priorities in a Hybrid Course"

110

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 110

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

John Holland, San Francisco State University, "The Cycle of Peer
Feedback and Revision in a Hybrid Course"
Ron Richardson, San Francisco State University, "Whose Writing?
Shifting Ownership in a Hybrid Course from Teacher to Student"
Niki Turnipseed, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "Taking the
High Road: Reflective Strategies for Conscious Teacher Collaboration"
13-Theory

C.39 	 More Than Words: Using Comics Responsibly in the
Composition Classroom
	

This session explores how a rhetorical analysis of comics (in the composition classroom) can promote a sense of citizenship and responsibility
while being accessible.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati/Blue Ash College
Speakers: Michael Dimmick, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
"Composing Citizenship Practices: Comic Books, Literacy, and
Placemaking in African American Communities"
Amanda Athon, Governors State University, "Developing Inclusive
Frameworks for Teaching Visual Rhetoric: Making Comic Lessons
ADA Compliant"
Andre Jones, Kean University, "’With Great Power Comes Great
Responsibility’—and So I Can’t Keep Quiet about Brian Michael
Bendis’ Spider-Man"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	111

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 111

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

D Sessions: 3:15–4:30 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
D.39 	 Taking Action Workshop: Naming and Narrowing
Refer to page 16 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Glenda Eoyang, HSD Institute

D.40 	 Taking Action Workshop: Influencing Policy
Refer to page 18 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speakers: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community
College
Lori Shorr, Temple University

Poster Sessions
Hilton Sky Walk, Level Two
A Writing Center for Technical-Academic Literacy: Developing Strategies
for Science Communication
This poster details a project to help researchers to write a good scientific paper
in Brazil and find successful publication.
Rosana Ferrareto Lourenço Rodrigues, Instituto Federal de São Paulo (IFSP)
Best Practices for Service-Learning Reflection Assessment and Design: A
Case Study of an Alternative Breaks Program
New practices for reflection assessment and design work to alleviate ethical
concerns about international service-learning.
Kim Lilienthal, North Carolina State University
Family History Research Methodology for Rhetorical Writing
Argues a conceptual methodology that has not been articulated in research
methods texts to date: family history research methodology.
Nancy H. Button, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne

112

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 112

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Genocide, Cinema, and Human Rights Rhetorics of Early Twentieth
Century America
As a recovery project, my project examines the story of Aurora Mardiganian, a
genocide survivor turned into a human rights poster-child.
Geghard Arakelian, Syracuse University, CCR
Keep Mad and Tumblr On: Neurodivergent Identity and Autistic
Self-Advocacy in Social Media–Based Counterpublics
This project will analyze the rhetoric of self-advocacy in both established organizations and social media such as Twitter and Tumblr.
Geneva Canino, University of Houston
One Goal—to Strengthen the Bonds That Form Our Society, One Essay at
a Time.
Houston startup answers the need to provide effective, online writing feedback
for student writers, with retired teachers as advisers.
Vivian Colinas Jones, Lone Star College - Montgomery
Taking Action in Basic Writing: Faculty Perceptions of Crucial Conditions
for Effective Writing Instruction in the Basic Writing Course
This poster presents the perceptions of faculty of Basic Writing at the two-year
college regarding crucial conditions for teaching writing.
Nayelee Villanueva, College of Southern Nevada
"The Cookie Lobbyist" and Strategic Activism for Water Safety in West
Virginia
West Virginia’s "Cookie Lobbyist" helps activists and scholars consider new
avenues for activism.
Tabetha Adkins, Texas A&M University-Commerce

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	113

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 113

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

13-Theory

D.01 	 Deweyan Lineages: Writing, Action, and the Public
Sphere
	

An exploration of John Dewey’s The Public and Its Problems in contemporary rhetoric and composition theory of writing and public action.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Lisa Arnold, North Dakota State University
Speakers: Stephen Schneider, University of Louisville
Jeremiah Dyehouse, University of Rhode Island
Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University
8-Taking Action

D.02 	 Writing against Racism and Stereotypes
	

The panelists suggest classroom-based methods of negotiating difference
and acting against systemic racism.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Katie Arosteguy, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Adnan Salhi, Henry Ford College, "Taking Action to Fix and
Repair without Misery or Despair"
Jeanette Lehn, Florida State University, "A Praxis for Critical Pedagogy
beyond Student Centered Learning and towards the Negotiation of
Difference"
Sophie Bell, St. John’s University, "Strategies for Writing against Racism"
J.J. Andrews, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Overcoming Stereotype
Threats in Social Studies with Composition as Actionable Items"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.03 	 Antiracist Classroom Practices: Enacting Socially Just
Agendas
	

This panel offers several antiracist classroom practices for teachers and
students and a rhetorical listening of them as a response.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame
Speakers: Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, "Racial
Profiling and a WPA’s Strategy for Institutional Change: A Call for
Action"
Asao Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma, "Writing Assessment as an
Antiracist Practice"
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, "Not All That New:
Visual Rhetorics and the Latina or Latino Student"
Respondent: Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University

114

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 114

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

13-Theory

D.04 	 Writing Time, Writing Spaces
	

This panel explores the underrepresented influence of space and time on
writing and professional activity.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Thomas Ballard, Iowa State University
Speakers: Hannah Rule, University of South Carolina, "The Touch and
Feel of Typing"
Stacey Pigg, North Carolina State University, "Writing, Mobility, and the
Rhetorical Constraints of Iterative Time"
Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati, "Writing and Bent Chronology"
Dale Jacobs, University of Windsor, "A Matter of Trust: Vulnerable
Relations, Hospitable Spaces"
Ben Lauren, Michigan State University, "Disjuncture, Difference, and
Representation in Experience Maps"
2-Basic Writing

D.05 	 Students Are Not Data Points: Empowering Individuals in
Basic Writing Classes
	

The politics of remediation are explored as panelists from one of the City
Colleges of Chicago tell the story of how faculty pushed back.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Emily Beals, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Kim Knutson, Wright College, "The National Politics behind
the Marginalization of Basic Writing Courses and Programs"
Daniel Borzutzky, Wright College, "The Preservation of Genuine Open
Access"
Susan Grace, Wright College, "Our (Successful) Ten-Year Battle against
the Use of Flawed Standardized Placement Tests"
Tara Whitehair, Wright College, "A Critique of Baltimore’s Accelerated
Learning Program (ALP) Model and the Associated Research from the
Community College Research Center (CCRC)"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	115

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 115

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

D.06 	 Beyond the Helping or Hurting Binary: Examining
Healthcare Rhetorics and Contexts
	

These panelists examine divergent sites of healthcare and trauma to understand the rhetorical and social impact of current health care discourses.
Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: Linda Breslin, Southwestern Christian University
Speakers: Aimee Mapes, The University of Arizona, "Re-Authored Narratives: A Case Study of Reflective Writing for Veterans with SCI/D"
Michelle Day, University of Louisville, "Helping or Hurting?: Empowerment and Trauma-informed Practice in Literacy-mediated Community
Engagement"
Stephen Cohen, University of Louisville, "The Rhetoric of Patients: How
to Access Care in an Epidemic"
5-History

D.07 	 New Directions in Transnational Asian/Asian American
Rhetoric and Composition: Issues for Historiography,
Digital Rhetoric, Racial Justice, and Writing Center
Research
	

This Asian/Asian American Caucus–sponsored roundtable highlights new
directions in transnational Asian/Asian American rhetoric and writing.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Jolivette Mecenas, University of La Verne
Speakers: Chanon Adsanatham, University of Maryland, "Re-Placing
Archival Studies in the Global Turn: Critical Methods for Researching
Asian Rhetorics"
Priya Sirohi, Purdue University, "Rhetorics of South/Asian American
Identity: Mapping Context, Purpose, and Use"
Patricia Poblete, Iowa State University, "Taking Action on Campus:
Re-Examining ‘Asian’ Identities of Writers in the Writing Center"
Morris Young, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Historicizing
Transnational Asian American Rhetoric"
Vani Kannan, Syracuse University, "#ModelMinorityMutiny: Defining"
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, "Convergence and Situatedness
of Free Speech: WeChat as Site of Activism"
Respondent: Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University

116

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 116

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

D.08 	 Pedagogical Threshold Concepts Derived from Online
Writing Instruction: Or, Why Writing Teachers Should
Resist the Enterprise Model of Online Course Design
	

Writing teachers should be involved in creating the online writing classes
we teach; that experience offers unique professional development.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Renae Bruce, Texas Woman’s University
Speakers: Jill Heney, Boise State University
Stephanie Cox, Boise State University
Jennifer Black, Boise State University
Melissa Keith, Boise State University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.09 	 Scare Tactics: Working Theory into Action through
Multimodal Praxis
	

We will discuss how we have individually made use of multimodal horror
texts within the FYC classroom as sociocultural artifacts.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Bri Lafond, Riverside City College
Speakers: Kristen Schellhous, University of La Verne, "We ARE the
Walking Dead: Critically Engaging The Walking Dead with FYC
Students"
Manar Gneim, California State University, San Bernardino
Bri Lafond, Riverside City College, "Ontology in the House: Mark Z.
Danielewski’s House of Leaves in the FYC Classroom"
7-Institutional and Professional

D.10 	 Working Hard with Few Rewards: Life as a "Part-Time"
Instructor
	

This panel looks at the obstacles that part-time instructors face as part-time
instructors.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Amy Brumfield, Idaho State University
Speakers: Nancy Reichert, Kennesaw State University Marietta, "What Is
in a Name?: Navigating Signification and Labor Practices in the
Consolidated University as a Disabled Subject"
Adam Cogbill, University of New Hampshire, "‘Our Best Work’: Toward
Increased Recognition for Teachers of Composition"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	117

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 117

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Ilknur Sancak-Marusa, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, "‘But I
only have an M.A.’"-From Adjunct to Tenure-Track Faculty in a FourYear State University"
Mary Laughlin, North Dakota State University, "Writing Feedback, PartTime Writing Instruction: Intersections between Two Studies"
14-Writing Programs

D.11 	 Retention and Student Success: Taking Action in Writing
Programs and Classrooms
	

This panel examines narratives and counternarratives of retention and
student success within writing programs and institutions.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Eileen Camfield, University of the Pacific
Speakers: Ashley Holmes, Georgia State University, "Narratives of
Retention and the Use of Big Data: How Institutional Discourses
Impact Writing Programs"
Sarah Harris, Indiana University East, "When We Are All Talking about
Our Writing: Success and Retention in the First-Year Writing
Classroom"
Cristine Busser, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Writing to Persist?
Retention Research and Redefining Student Success"
13-Theory

D.12 	 Disability Studies in Action: Cross-Locational
Perspectives
	

This panel pursues disability studies in action, analyzing how disability
becomes deployed or neglected in various spaces of the university.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Margaret Price, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Sean Kamperman, The Ohio State University, "Lessons from
Literacy Studies: Reframing Reading and Readers as Interdependent"
Paula Miller, The Ohio State University, "Writing Centers in Action:
Writing Center Grand Narratives and Disability Studies"
Sara Franssen, The Ohio State University, "Taking Action through Writing
Groups: Valuing Difference in the Writing Center"
Chad Iwertz, The Ohio State University, "‘I’m Not Crazy; My Mother Had
Me Tested’: Disclosure and the Formation of Unequal Access"

118

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 118

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.13 	 A New Look at Old Traditions
	

This panel reexamines three standard practices: timed writing, study
abroad, and essayist literacy.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Juliet Myrtetus, Pasadena City College
Speakers: Santosh Khadka, California State University, Northridge,
"Teaching Essayist Literacy in the Multimedia World"
Nancy Wilson, Texas State University, "Composing Ourselves Abroad:
Writing Our Way to Intercultural Competence"
Juliet Myrtetus, Pasadena City College, "Teach the Controversy: A
Metacognitive Approach to Timed Writing Instruction"
2-Basic Writing

D.14 	 Writing, Reading, Seeing, Doing: Contextualization in
Basic Writing Courses
	

Presenters will illustrate how contextualized curriculum and service
learning projects engage students in authentic communication acts.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Nick Carbone, Humanities Editorial Department, Macmillan
Speakers: Cynthia Kiefer, Scottsdale Community College, "Writing,
Reading, Seeing, Doing: Contextualization in Basic Writing Courses"
Matthew Healy, Scottsdale Community College, "Students Taking Action:
The Hunger Fair"
Ramona Goth, Scottsdale Community College, "Reading, Writing, and My
Real Life"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.15 	 The Critical Place of Affect and Culture in
Transnationalism: Case Studies from the Local
and Global Contexts
	

Case studies about agency and the use of narrative in developing transnational networks, enacting identity, and promoting social justice.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Ligia Mihut, Barry University
Speakers: Shui-yin Sharon Yam, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
"Personal Narratives as Modes of Civic Engagement"
Rachel Bloom-Pojar, University of Dayton, "From First World Saviors to
Socios en Salud: Composing Digital Narratives of Global Health"
Sara Alvarez, University of Louisville, "Transnational Youth and Affect:
Ethnographic Narratives of Emerging Practices and Polymedia"
Respondent: LuMing Mao, Miami University
CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	119

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 119

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

13-Theory

D.16 	 Bridging Cultures, Languages, and Lands: An Illustration
of Latina/o and Chicanx Rhetorical Practices
	

We illustrate three models of Latina/o and Chicanx rhetorical practices as
we negotiate cultural and linguistic transitions in America.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: LauraAnne Carroll-Adler, University of Southern California
Speakers: Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, "A Video
Exploration of the Hybrid Cultural Identities of Bilingual Latina/o
Children"
Laura Gonzales, Michigan State University, "Insights into Multilingual
Digital Work Coordination: ‘It’s Not about Writing in English or
Writing in Spanish, It’s about Being All the Time in Both Worlds’"
Victor Del Hierro, Michigan State University, "Familia-From-Scratch:
Disrupting Settler-Colonialism through Indigenous Chicanx Histories
of Migration"
5-History

D.17 	 Micro Histories of Access at Open Admissions Institutions
	

These three presentations interrogate late 1960s to early 1970s microhistories of open admissions in New York and elsewhere.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Cheryl Smith, Baruch College, CUNY
Speakers: Miguel Franco, Ohio University, "Alienated: Urban Bodies
Displaced from College Composition"
Sean Molloy, Hunter College, CUNY, "Teaching More Than Etiquette:
Kenneth Bruffee’s FYW Program at Brooklyn College (1970-75)"
Cheryl Smith, Baruch College, CUNY, "Poetic Justice: A Micro History
of Poetry and Protest during Open Admissions at City College, 19671972"
6-Information Technologies

D.18 	 State of Play: Gaming, Writing, Teaching, and Research
	

A mapping of the intersection of games and composition teaching, research,
and writing.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Richard Colby, University of Denver, "State of Play: A Short
History"
Speakers: Jan Holmevik, Clemson University, "Ludic Literacy: The
Missing Link"

120

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 120

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, "Empathy Games:
Narratives, Choices, and Emotional Connections"
Rebekah Shultz Colby, University of Denver, "Trends in Game-based
Writing Pedagogy"
Wendi Sierra, St. John Fisher College, "A ‘Compositional’ Approach to
Digital Game Design"
Douglas Eyman, George Mason University, "Scholarship on Games: A
Typology of Writing Studies Research Methods"
7-Institutional and Professional

D.19 	 Preparing Teachers of College Writing: A Report on the
New 4Cs Position Statement and Suggestions for Putting
It into Action
	

Report on the new 4Cs Position Statement on the Preparation and
Professional Development of College Writing Teachers.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Carter, Georgia State University
Speakers: Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical College
Respondents: Sarah Liggett, Louisiana State University
Nicholas Behm, Elmhurst College
Lori Ostergaard, Oakland University
8-Taking Action

D.20 	 Slow and Lasting Change: Microshifts and the
Development of Activist Writing Centers and Writing
Programs
	

We address how writing centers and programs can work with campus groups
to support writing-for-change, activism, and sustainable partnerships.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Harry Denny, Purdue University
Speakers: Stacy Nall, Purdue University, "The Campus as Community:
An Alternative Approach to Service-Learning"
Nicholas Marino, Purdue University, "Aligning the Centers: Challenging
Gender Oppression through Partnerships with the Writing Center and
LGBTQ Center"
Jeffrey Gerding, Purdue University, "Everyday Activism: Writing Centers
as Spaces for Sustained Public Engagement"
Tammy Conard-Salvo, Purdue University, "Do We Do That? Writing
Centers and Social Justice Work"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	121

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 121

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

D.21 	 What’s the Story: How Writing for Action Brought Our
Urban Campus Garden to Life and Changed Our
Relationships with Our Neighborhood
	

By focusing on sustainable food production and nutrition in our storytelling, the HBCU campus organic garden helps students, faculty, and their
neighborhood make the connection between a healthy lifestyle and their
own educations.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Jessie Casteel, University of Houston
Speakers: Dixie Goswami, Bread Loaf School of English
Danielle Holback, Allen University
Devon Muldrow, Allen University
Lillian Reeves, Allen University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.22 	 Making Inequities Matter: Student Success as Action in
Dual Enrollment Composition and Alternatives
	

This panel outlines some problem areas with assessing student success in
dual-credit programs and explores possible alternative approaches.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Speakers: Caroline Wilkinson, New Jersey City University
Jamila Kareem, University of Louisville
Casie Moreland, Arizona State University, Tempe
10-Professional and Technical Writing

D.23 	 Writing for Industry and Workplaces
	

This panel theorizes workplace writing within business and engineering in
relation to authorship, audience, genre, and organizational cultures.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Maria P. Chaves, SUNY Binghamton
Speakers: Katherine Robisch, Kent State University, "Writing Strategies
for Action: What Seminar Speakers Can Teach Us"
Bernadette Longo, New Jersey Institute of Technology, "A New Resource
for Situating Workplace Writing: Communication Workflows Presents
Engineering Documents in Their Workflow Context"

122

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 122

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Elisa Findlay, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "(Un)Commodified
Texts: Ownership, Authorship, and Identity-Assertion in Workplace
Writing"
Krista White, Kent State University, "Projecting Theory onto Application
in Typified Workplace Writing"
Dave Kmiec, New Jersey Institute of Technology, "A New Resource for
Situating Workplace Writing: Communication Workflows Presents
Engineering Documents in Their Workflow Context"
11-Research

D.24 	 Researching Threshold Concepts and Transfer
	

Studies of the impact of teaching for transfer and designing instructions to
reveal threshold concepts in composition.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Chen Chen, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, "A Threshold Concepts
Framework for First-Year Writing: Implications for Classroom
Practice"
Robert Kaplan, Stony Brook University, "Report on a Study of Transfer in
a New Writing Minor Program"
Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, "Report on a Study of Transfer in a
New Writing Minor Program"
E. Shelley Reid, George Mason University, "The Lightbulb Has to Want
to Change: Guiding and Assessing Student Intention as a Pathway to
Learning Transfer in FYC"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.25 	 Metacognition Recognition, or I Know It When I See It
	

Through audience action, this de-structured panel explores how to find and
foster metacognition in textual, multimodal, and bodily practices.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Kamshia Childs, San Jacinto College
Speakers: Jennifer Eidum Zinchuk, Elon University
Jaclyn Fiscus, University of Washington
Jennifer LeMesurier, Colgate University
Respondents: Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington
Mary Jo Reiff, University of Kansas

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	123

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 123

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

11-Research

D.26 	 Acting Strategically with Multilingual Writers: Results
from a Cross-Institutional Research Study
	

Presentation of results from a CCCC research initiative study of students’
language repertoires with implications for pedagogy and policy.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound
Speakers: Deirdre Vinyard, Emily Carr University of Art and Design,
"Acting Strategically with Multilingual Writers: Results from a
Cross-Institutional Research Study"
Shanti Bruce, Nova Southeastern University, "Acting Strategically with
Multilingual Writers: Results from a Cross-Institutional Research
Study"
Rebecca Lorimer Leonard, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Acting Strategically with Multilingual Writers: Results from a
Cross-Institutional Research Study"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.27 	 Empathy, Atheism, and Religion in the Writing Classroom
	

This panel will explore the roles that empathy, atheism, and religion play
in the teaching of writing.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Eric Leake, Texas State University
Speakers: Brandy Scalise, University of Kentucky, "Storytelling,
Religious Identity, and the ClassOpening Discursive Possibilities
through Narrative"
Scott Wagar, Miami University, "Atheist Students in the Composition
Classroom"
Eric Leake, Texas State University, "Empathy and the Essay: Writing in
Response to Perspective-Taking Prompts"
8-Taking Action

D.28 	 African American Male Students Taking Actions to
Embrace Their Literacies
	

Demonstration of African American male identities of success shaped
through literacy from FYC courses to ENG major declaration and
graduation.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Geoffrey Clegg, Arkansas State University
Speakers: Yulanda M. McKinney, Monroe Community College

124

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 124

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Joyce Russell, Fayetteville State University, "An Afrofuturistic Reading
of Various Stories, Myths, and Legends: A Short Lesson in Improving
Literacies among Young African American (Wo)men"
Lynne T. Jefferson, Saint Augustine’s University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.29 	 Other Englishes: The Need to Acknowledge and Support
Them
	

This panel explores issues in L2 and international students and notes the
importance of them.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Amy Clements, St. Edward’s University
Speakers: Megan Bardolph, Penn State New Kensington, "Threshold
Concepts and L2 Writers"
Lina Trigos-Carrillo, University of Missouri, "A Critical Approach to
Academic Literacies in Latin America: A Multiple-Case Study"
Eric Rodriguez, California State University, Fullerton, "Entiendes?:
Utilizing Inclusion Strategies in College Composition Classrooms"
Ling He, Miami University, "Writing Strategies for Action: Explicit
Instruction in Digital Environments for ESL Writing"
14-Writing Programs

D.30 	 Equity in the Writing Center: Questioning Assumptions
about Anti-Racist Practice
	

This session will explore the assumptions we make about the roles of access
and equity in the creation of anti-racist writing centers.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Janelle Jennings-Alexander, Florida State University
Speakers: Katie Levin, University of Minnesota, "Tricksterism, Access,
and Scarcity in the R1 Writing Center"
Rachael Gary, University of Puget Sound, "Teaching Courageous
Conversations"
Alba Newmann Holmes, Swarthmore College, "Disembodied Rhetoric"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	125

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 125

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

D.31 	 CCCC Committee for Effective Practices in Online
Writing: Student Matters
	

We present the CCCC’s Committee for Effective Practices in Online Writing’s current research on "student matters."

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Jennifer Clifton, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Scott Warnock, Drexel University, "The Story of Our Class: A
Shared Teacher & Student Narrative of an OWC"
Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, "Moving Past Individual
Comments: A Study of a New Method for Student Feedback in Online
Writing Classrooms"
Diana Gasiewski, Drexel University, "The Story of Our Class: A Shared
Teacher & Student Narrative of an OWC"
Diane Martinez, Western Carolina University, "Through the Eyes of Our
Students"
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, "Through the Eyes of Our
Students"
Meredith Singleton, University of Cincinnati, "Moving Past Individual
Comments: A Study of a New Method for Student Feedback in Online
Writing Classrooms"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.32 	 Taking Rhetorical Action to Church: Advocating Doubtful
Belief as Ground for Faithful Conversation
	

Consideration of rhetorical pedagogy’s and practitioners’ potential impact,
from individuals through denominations in Christian tradition.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Gretchen Cobb, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Bradley Siebert, Washburn University, "Preaching as a Choir:
Rehearsing Dissonance, Accepting Dissensus"
John MacLean, Illinois State University
Naomi Clark, Loras College
Kerrie Carsey, York College of Pennsylvania, "Student Credos: Connecting
Belief and Identity in Writing"
Brian Derico, Cincinnati Christian University, "Teaching Rest as a
Component of Praxis"

126

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 126

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

5-History

D.33 	 Writing Hidden Histories Inside and Outside the
Classroom
	

This panel interrogates hidden or under-theorized sites of writing inside and
outside the classroom, from the 16th to late 20th centuries.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Alex Nielsen, Old Dominion University
Speakers: Michelle Kaczmarek, The Pennsylvania State University, State
College, "Charles W. Eliot and the Jesuits: Rhetorical Education at the
Turn of the Twentieth Century"
Alex Nielsen, Old Dominion University, "Sexualizing Survival: Gendered
Texts, Survival Handbooks, and Nature Guides"
Laura Lisabeth, St. John’s University, "Documents of Culture, Documents
of Barbarism: The Elements of Style and Standard English as a
Commodity Fetish"
Matthew Nunes, Ohio University, "The Theme Writing Tradition: Origins
of Early First-Year Composition Writing Assignments"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.34 	 Locating the "Learner" in Learning Transfer: (How) Does
Identity Facilitate or Impede Transfer between Academic
and Nonacademic Domains?
	

Take action: How instructors and researchers might honor and recognize the
role of learner identity in transfer #transfer #identity.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Aubrey Schiavone, University of Michigan
Speakers: Jenae Cohn, University of California, Davis
Anna Knutson, University of Michigan
Melody Pugh, United States Air Force Academy
4-Creative Writing

D.35 	 Stories in Shale: Reconstructing the Fractured World
	

Stories in Shale examines how creative writing about the Marcellus shale
breaks polarizing rhetoric through peacemaking and activism.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University
Speakers: Jimmy Guignard, Mansfield University, "Stealth Activism:
Creative Nonfiction in the Rhetoric Classroom"
Lilace Guignard, Mansfield University, "Standpoint Poetics: How the ‘I’
Can Connect (with) a Fracked Audience"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	127

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 127

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Ted Fristrom, Drexel University, "Underground"
Ann E. Green, Saint Joseph’s University, "Pennsylvania Blue Stone:
Writing as Activism"
11-Research

D.36 	 Tagging Texts, Archives, and Walls: Innovation and
Invention in Research Method Design
	

By examining three diverse sites of research, this panel advocates for the
generation of fluid, site-specific, and responsive methods.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Denise Coblish, Kaplan University
Speakers: Kristi Girdharry, Northeastern University, "Methodological
Orientations to the "
Kevin Smith, Northeastern University, "The ‘Productive Unease’ of
Teacher Research: Collaborative Research through Writing in TEI"
Charles Lesh, Northeastern University
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.37 	 Action for Whom, for How Long, and with What Impact?
Raising Problems, Generating Solutions through
Community-Based Courses
	

Community-based courses assume action, but how? Presenters raise issues
and lead discussion toward participant-driven solutions.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts
Speakers: Connie Mick, University of Notre Dame
Joshua Schriftman, University of Miami
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University
Martha Webber, California State University Fullerton
Cheryl Duffy, Fort Hays State University

128

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 128

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

8-Taking Action

D.38 	 (Inter)Disciplinary Literacies: Strategies for Taking Action
and Expanding the Conversation
	

Speakers share ways to foster dialogues and disciplinary literacy collaborations with middle and secondary teachers and university faculty.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware
Speakers: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University, "Opening the
Dialogue"
Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University, "Expanding the
Conversation"
Annette Wannamaker, Eastern Michigan University, "Rethinking the
Pedagogy"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	129

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 129

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

E Sessions: 4:45–6:00 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
E.38 	 Taking Action Workshop: Framing Messages
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English

E.39 	 Taking Action Workshop: Making Action Plans
Refer to page 19 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University

2-Basic Writing

E.01 	 Acting toward Inclusivity: Closing the Achievement Gap
in First-Year Writing
	

Linguistic diversity, writing strategies, and placement procedures used to
close the achievement gap in basic writing courses.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Lance Cummings, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Speakers: Jessica Parker, MSU Denver, "Mash-Ups and Code-Meshing:
Taking Action on Linguistic Diversity and Inclusive Excellence"
Jane Vigil, MSU Denver
Gloria Eastman, Metropolitan State University of Denver, "Seeing What
We Mean: Employing Visual Literacy Assignments and Reflective
Practice to Engage Basic Writers"
13-Theory

E.02 	 Reading, Writing, Listening, Feeling: Experiential
Engagement and the Fluid Classroom
	

Notions of learning through experience are pursued via the modes of
reading, writing, and listening.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three

130

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 130

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Chair: Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University
Speakers: Matthew Overstreet, University of Pittsburgh, "Writing the
Flux: William James and the Composition Classroom"
Daniel Libertz, University of Pittsburgh, "A Melding of New Critical
Theory and Practice: Reading, Textbooks, and Student Experience,
1950-1970"
Ryan McGuckin, Louisiana State University, "Multimodal Listening:
Variations on a Theme of Experience and the Embedded Registers of
Writing and Music"
8-Taking Action

E.03 	 Calling You In: Queer Worldmaking and Rhetorical Action
	

This panel explores the rhetorical role of action within the discipline of
rhet/comp through queer/LGBT issues and approaches.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Christy Davis, University of Arkansas
Speakers: Matthew Cox, East Carolina University
Maria Novotny, Michigan State University
Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University
Respondent: Jacqueline Rhodes, California State University, San
Bernardino
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.04 	 Negotiating Competing Curricular, Institutional, and
Disciplinary Interests in Advanced Composition
	
	

Panel explores the complicated ground of advanced composition, attending
to course histories, content, and students’ writing development.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Jill Davis, Montana State University
Speakers: Michelle Neely, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs,
"Promoting Metaknowledge in Advanced Composition: The Use of
Eportfolios to Foster Transfer"
Katherine Mack, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs, "Advanced
Composition: A Stepping Stone, but from Where to Where?"
Ann Amicucci, University of Colorado Colorado Springs, "Students’ Writing Selves: Positioning Non-Academic Literacy Practices in Advanced
Composition"
Marilee Brooks-Gillies, Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis, "‘Rhetoric and Writing’ not ‘Rhetoric or Writing’: Negotiating
Disciplinary Tensions and Pedagogical Choices"
Respondent: Ceil Malek, University of Colorado-Colorado Springs

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	131

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 131

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

E.05 	 Action over Reaction: Strengthening Veteran Identity
through Strategic Narratives
	

Consideration of how writing professionals can create generative spaces in
which veteran/military identities facilitate academic achievement.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Christopher Dean, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Micah Christopher Wright, The University of Texas at San
Antonio
Marion Wilson, University of California San Diego
Ashley Bender Smith, University of Louisville
D Alexis Hart, Allegheny College
2-Basic Writing

E.06 	 Shaping the Field, Shaping the Community, Shaping the
Class: The Council on Basic Writing at 35 (Sponsored by
the Council on Basic Writing)
	

In our 35th year, former chairs of the Council on Basic Writing reflect on
the past, present, and future of the group and the field.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Co-Chair: Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College
Co-Chair: Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University
Speakers: Karen Uehling, Boise State University
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY
William Lalicker, West Chester University
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University
Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County
5-History

E.07 	 Praise, Blame, Educate: Epideictic Possibilities
	

Historically informed inquiries focusing on epideictic rhetoric and its
formative roles in generating, shaping, and negotiating the possible.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Speakers: Jeff Walker, University of Texas at Austin, "The Mummy
Speaks: What Byzantine Rhetoric Can Tell Us Now"
Ted Armstrong, Valparaiso University, "Rainolds’ Unrestricted Rhetoric"
Dale Smith, Ryerson University, "Education through ‘Black Art’:
Epideictic Oratory in the Black Arts Movement"

132

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 132

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.08 	 Write Where You Live: Creating a Culture of Writing in
Student Housing
	

A presentation on the Writing Affiliates Program: a co-curricular partnership between our expository writing program and residence life.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Marcos Del Hierro, University of New Hampshire
Speakers: Lorelei Ormrod, New York University
Normandy Sherwood, New York University
David Cregar, New York University
Michael Tyrell, New York University
Christine Malvasi, New York University
Mark Braley, New York University
Beth Kurkjian, New York University
David Ellis, New York University
6-Information Technologies

E.09 	 Facebook Identities: Public and Private
	

Taking into account public and semi-private performances of identity on
Facebook, this panel provides case studies of those grieving, aging,
professionalizing, and unfollowing.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Sara DiCaglio, Pennsylvania State University
Speakers: Allegra Smith, Arizona State University, "I Can’t Facebook on
My Dumb Phone: Digital Literacies beyond School and Work for Older
Adults"
Kristin Ravel, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Beyond Unfriending,
beyond Unfollowing: A Feminist Methodology for Interpreting
Composition in Digital Environments"
Megan McIntyre, Dartmouth College, "Friends of Grief: Facebook,
Mourning, and Digital Identity"
Christopher Andrews, McMurry University, "You Have a New Friend
Request: Graduate Students, Facebook, and Self-Sponsored
Professionalization"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	133

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 133

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.10 	 Objects and Agency in the Writing Classroom
	

This panel discusses visual rhetoric and object-oriented theory as strategies
for building student agency in composition courses.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Lavinia Hirsu, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Speakers: Lucy Johnson, Washington State University, "Changing
Demographics: Visual Rhetoric and Emoji Narratives"
Caddie Alford, Indiana University, "Cold as Ice and Stiff as a Board:
Reading and Writing with the Objects in Literary Doxa"
Lavinia Hirsu, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "You’re Asking
Me to Do What?: Object-Oriented Pedagogy in the Classroom"
13-Theory

E.11 	 Interfacing Cultural Rhetorics: A History and a Call
	

This roundtable critically engages with cultural rhetorics theories,
methodologies, and curricula in rhetoric, composition, and tech comm.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Linh Dich, Miami University
Speakers: Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Gabriela Rios, University of Central Florida
Casie Cobos,
Donnie Johnson Sackey, Wayne State University
Respondent: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University
8-Taking Action

E.12 	 Taking Local Action, Writing Activist Networks through
4C4Equality
	

We address 4C4Equality as networked organizing, viz., how we use digital
tools in local work and how we share resources across communities.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Marian Dillahunt, Methodist University
Speakers: Don Unger, St. Edward’s University
Michelle McMullin, Western Washington University
Liz Lane, Purdue University

134

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 134

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

11-Research

E.13 	 Researching Trans- and Multi-Lingual Landscapes
	

These studies highlight difference trans- and multi-lingual negotiations in
international contexts.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Mike Duncan, University of Houston-Downtown
Speakers: Michael Madson, University of Minnesota, "The Linguistic
Landscape of Songdo, South Korea: Implications for Place, Writing,
and Global Action"
Maria Prikhodko, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Nomadic
Literacies: International Multilingual Students’ Negotiations in
First-Year Multilingual Composition"
Emily Artiano, Northeastern University, "Vexed Tongues: Historicizing
Translingualism in the Long Eighteenth Century"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.14 	 Language Theory into Action: Translingual and L2
pedagogy in the Writing Classroom
	

This panel looks at three translingual writing class case studies to argue for
more refined teaching practices.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Laura Ellis-Lai, Texas State University
Speakers: Suthathip Thirakunkovit, Purdue University, "Perceptions of
Teacher Response to Student Texts: Comparing L1 and L2 Writers"
Tyler Carter, Purdue University, "Perceptions of Teacher Response to
Student Texts: Comparing L1 and L2 Writers"
Kerri Hauman, Transylvania University, "A Translingual First-Year
Seminar at a SLAC: Kind of Like FYC, Kind of Like BW, Kind of Like
ESL, but Not Really Any of These"
James Wright, Transylvania University, "A Translingual First-Year
Seminar at a SLAC: Kind of Like FYC, Kind of Like BW, Kind of
Like ESL, but Not Really Any of These"
Aylin B Atilgan, University of California, Davis, "Call to Action for
Inclusive Practices in Mainstream Composition Courses: An
Institutional Writing Needs Analysis on Chinese Students"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	135

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 135

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

9-Language

E.15 	 Language Ideologies and Second Language Writing
	

This panel offers an overview of theoretical and practical claims on second
language writing mainly related to language ideologies.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Jung Sook Kim, The Ohio State University, "‘Is that English?’:
Critical Language Awareness as a Strategy to Help Instructors
Incorporate Linguistic Diversity into Second Language Pedagogy"
Terese Thonus, University of Kansas, "The Disciplinarity of Second
Language Writing"
Thomas McNamara, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"Linguistic Difference on the Global Campus: Chinese Undergraduates,
Language Ideology, and the Corporate University"
Eunjeong Lee, Penn State University, "An ‘Incubating’ Academic Writer:
Learning and Teaching of Academic Writing in a U.S. IEP"
9-Language

E.16 	 Second Language Writing Specialists as Writing Program
Leaders: Opportunities for Advocacy
	

SLW experts in writing program leadership positions explore what these
positions make possible for multilingual writer advocacy.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Lindsey Ives, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
Speakers: Gail Shuck, Boise State University, ID
Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona
Michelle Cox, Cornell University
Gigi Taylor, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
13-Theory

E.17 	 Game Design as . . . : The Rhetorics of Designing Games
	

It’s no longer a question of "if," but a question of "how" we rhetorically
situate game design within various scholarly contexts.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: John Grant, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Danielle Roach, Miami University and Old Dominion University
Rochelle (Shelley) Rodrigo, University of Arizona
Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Oakland University
Anjali Pattanayak, University of Wisconsin-Platteville
Mary Karcher, Wayne State University
Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College

136

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 136

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.18 	 Writing: Dissertation, Thesis, and FYC

These panelists talk about writing at the graduate and undergraduate levels.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Olivia Walling, University of California Santa Barbara
Speakers: Jordan Canzonetta, Syracuse University, "Globalizing
Plagiarism & Writing Assessment: A Case Study of Turnitin’s
Discursive Teacher/Student Constructions across US Borders"
Kathryn Baillargeon, University of California, Santa Barbara,
"Apprentices Becoming Masters: Dissertation Boot Camps and
Navigating the Threshold between Graduate Student and Full-Fledged
Member of a Discipline"
Meghan Hancock, University of Louisville, "Should I Know This Already?:
A Case Study of New Graduate Students’ Experiences with Writing"
Jennifer Connolly, Southwestern Illinois College/Granite City HS, "Can’t
Stop This Train: Overcoming Obstacles/Challenging Myths about FYC
in the Dual Credit Classroom"
11-Research

E.19 	 Curating Transdisciplinary Research on Place-Based
Writing: An Interactive Introduction to 680 Open Access
Video Clips of Teachers and Students
	

Clips from videos of 38 teachers and students in place-based WID courses,
shared through Creative Commons to prompt action strategies.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Samantha Cosgrove, University of South Florida
Speakers: Chase Wiggins, University of Hawaii at Manoa, "Writing
without Borders: From Place-Based Writing to Campus Activism and
Beyond"
Scott Kaalele, University of Hawaii at Manoa, "Reflexive Analysis: The
Dimensions of Culture and Geography in Coding Place-Based Data
Sets"
Jim Henry, University of Hawaii at Manoa, "Real People in a Real Place:
How IRB Discussions Led to Video Recordings of Research
Participants"
Lisa Shea, University of Hawaii at Manoa, "The Potential of Creative
Commons: Sharing Transdisciplinary Writing Research for
Cross-Institutional Engagement Using a Digital Repository"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	137

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 137

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

E.20 	 Curricular Overseeing vs. Curricular Liberties: Designing
Infrastructures for Pedagogical Innovation
	

This panel describes course designs in a writing program that fulfill
curricular requirements yet still exemplify pedagogical creativity.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Casie Fedukovich, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Erin M. Andersen, Graduate Center, CUNY "Designing
Freshman Writing with Writing Centers: Not an Afterthought"
Robert Greco, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Designing for the 21st
Century: Integrating Digital Modes"
Seth Graves, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Designing Activism into
FYC: Small Activism for Big Investment for Student Writers"
Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, "Designing
Free-Range Curriculum (That Has Some Borders)"
Lindsey Albracht, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Designing Activism into
FYC: Small Activism for Big Investment for Student Writers"
Respondent: Tim McCormack, John Jay College of Criminal Justice
8-Taking Action

E.21 	 Assessment and Representation: Reconsidering
Assumptions about "Good" Writing
	

Panelists interrogate current assessment practices and argue for more
situated approaches to describe and analyze student writing.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Marino Fernandes, University of New Hampshire
Speakers: Craig A. Meyer, Texas A&M-Kingsville, "Is It Really about
Assessment?: Teaching with the Realities of Student Experience"
Daniel Mahala, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "Consuming
Assessments: Rubrics and the Circulation of Value in Writing
Assessment"
Elizabeth Keating, University of Houston, "Standardized Testing and
Post-Process Theory: Encouraging FYW Students to Understand
Writing as Public, Interpretive, and Situated"
Nicholas Behm, Elmhurst College, "Synthesizing Dynamic Criteria
Mapping with Third Wave Whiteness Theory: A Racially Conscious
Approach to Writing Assessment"

138

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 138

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

E.22 	 Pathways of Support in Basic Writing Programs
	

This panel investigates ways to support basic writing students in the areas
of self-efficacy and access.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Ruth Benander, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College
Speakers: Ruth Benander, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College,
"Owning It: ePortfolios, Student Identity, and Entry into College
Writing"
Daniel Sansing, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College, "Owning It:
ePortfolios, Student Identity, and Entry into College Writing"
Meghan Sweeney, Saint Mary’s College, "The (In)Action of College
Student Readers: An Examination of Motivation and Self-Efficacy
among Basic Reading and Writing Students"
Tristin Hooker, Missouri State University, "Putting Students in their Place:
Remediation, Placement, and Self-Efficacy in Local Contexts"
Robin Murphy, East Central University, "People Like Me: Basic Writing
Attitude, Access, Assessment, and Retention"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.23 	 In Search of the Genuine A: Challenges in Evaluating
Top-Tier Student Writing
	

Using 1,000 essays from USC’s FYW course, this panel will explore
challenges and questions related to evaluating students’ best writing.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Bankard, University of Southern California, "The Internet
	 Trolls Under the ‘A’ Bridge: Online Grade Norming and Data Analytics"
Speakers: Dan Pecchenino, University of Southern California
Jeffrey Chisum, University of Southern California
Ashley Karlin, University of Southern California, "‘But I did what you
asked’: Interpreting the ‘A’ as Exceptional or Competent Work"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	139

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 139

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

8-Taking Action

E.24 	 Classroom Materials as Microcosm: Pushing against the
Dominant Academic Discourse
	

Panelists analyze the ways in which texts and curriculum reinforce
dominant culture, creating defacto language policy.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Jessica Menkin, Texas Christian University
Speakers: Kristen Ruccio, Georgia State University, "Taking Action about
Ableist Language in Composition Studies"
Brad Jacobson, University of Arizona, "Defining "Good Writing" in the
Age of the Common Core: Curriculum as Language Policy"
Jessica Birch, Case Western Reserve University, "Transparency in
Pedagogical Goals: Creating a Classroom Culture of Informed
Consent"
Cedric Burrows, Marquette University, "Too Black, Too Strong: The
Construction of the African American Male Writers in Composition
Textbooks"
3-Community, Civic & Public

E.25 	 Action, Advocacy, and Appalachia: Cultural-Rhetorical
Strategies for Public Writing and Rhetorics
	

This panel works to unveil productive strategies for rhetorical action in
civic contexts by focusing on public advocacy work in Appalachia.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Megan Adams, The University of Findlay, "A Regional Rhetoric
for Advocacy in Appalachia"
Speakers: Krista Bryson, The Ohio State University, "A Regional Rhetoric
for Advocacy in Appalachia"
Jonathan Bradshaw, Miami University of Ohio, "Advocacy beyond
Bricks: Creating Appalachian Networks for Change"
Kathryn Trauth Taylor, Miami University of Ohio, "Advocacy beyond
Bricks: Creating Appalachian Networks for Change"
Megan Adams, The University of Findlay, "Entering In: Examining How
to Engage Ethically in Appalachian Media-Based Work"
Travis Rountree, University of Louisville, "‘The Many Untruths’:
Newspaper Representations of the Hillsville, VA Courthouse Shootout
of 1912"

140

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 140

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.26 	 Negotiating Academic Communities: Best Practices for
Students and Faculty
	

This panel illustrates effective strategies for creating a less abstract notion
of the term community in academic environments.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Chelsea Swick, Kent State University
Speakers: Chelsea Swick, Kent State University, "Who are you again?:
Creating Community with Online Instruction"
Sarah DeLury, Kent State University, "There Is No Us in Team, Just I and
Me: Encouraging Students to Actively Engage Communities Together"
Laura Leigh Morris, Furman University, "The Prison Writing Class:
Creating Community in Spaces of Mistrust"
Colleen Thorndike, University of Mississippi, "Faculty Learning
Communities as Sites of Interdisciplinary Community Building and
Graduate Pedagogical Training"
8-Taking Action

E.27 	 (Re)Defining Values for Writing
	

Using distinct situations—liberal arts programs, international secondary
education, and two-year colleges—panelists will examine how political
forces and neoliberal marketing logics commodify writing curriculum.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Misty Fuller, University of North Florida, Jacksonville
Speakers: Jonathan Worley, St. Mary’s University College, "The Risks
of Systematized Writing on Our Composition Classes: Lessons from
Northern Ireland"
Neil Simons, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Real Action:
Addressing the Needs and Potentialities of the Community College
in a Post-Postmodern (and Probably Neoliberal) Composition
Classroom"
Matt Dowell, Le Moyne College, "The Marketing of Writing:
Commodification at the Financially Challenged Small Liberal
Arts College, and the WPA’s Role"
Clayann Gilliam Panetta, Christian Brothers University, "The Risks of
Systematized Writing on Our Composition Classes: Lessons from
Northern Ireland"
Luke Winslow, San Diego State University, "Neoliberalism and the
Decline of the Liberal Arts Tradition"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	141

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 141

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.28 	 Readers, Reading, and Metacognition in Action
	

These panelists explore metacognition across contexts to ask key questions
about readers, writers, and reading practices.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Mary Tripp, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Kathryn Tucker, Nevada State College, "Metacognition in
Action: First-Year Composition, Writing about Writing, and Writing
Program Development"
Julie Myatt Barger, Middle Tennessee State University, "Re-envisioning
Research Writing as Teaching Relationships between Readers and Texts
through Metacognition"
Hollye Wright, University of Louisville, "AP English Language and
Composition as a Site of First-Year Writing: The Place of Reading
Instruction"
5-History

E.29 	 Material Histories of Nineteenth-Century Writing and
Rhetoric
	

This panel spotlights three archival examples of 19th-century material
rhetoric.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Mudiwa Pettus, The Pennsylvania State University
Speakers: Sue Hum, University of Texas at San Antonio, "The Visual
Rhetorics of Representation: Chinese American Engagement with
Anti-Chinese Sentiments in 19th-Century Photographs"
Michael Edwards, Washington State University, "Slavery, Computers, and
Catharine Beecher’s Clock: The Multimodal Technologies and Digital
Economies of Nineteenth-Century Composition Instruction"
Mudiwa Pettus, The Pennsylvania State University, "‘How Must the Little
Colored Child Feel’: Edward Johnson’s A School History of the Negro
Race as Revisionary African American Educational Historiography"
6-Information Technologies

E.30 	 ELI Review as Strategic Action
	

This panel presents findings on the use of ELI Review peer review software
in online writing courses, WAC programs, and empirical research.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Laura Gabrion, Oakland University

142

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 142

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Speakers: Joannah Portman-Daley, University of Rhode Island, "ELI
Review in Online Writing Courses"
Nedra Reynolds, University of Rhode Island, "ELI Review in WAC
Initiatives"
Ryan Omizo, University of Rhode Island, "ELI Review in Research"
9-Language

E.31 	 Non-Native English-Speaking Faculty and Faculty
Development
	

This session explores the learning and teaching experiences of non-native
English composition professors in order to analyze why they chose to
teach in a language that is foreign to them and discusses the current fights
and struggles non-English-speaking instructors encounter.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: John Gallagher, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign
Speakers: Diana Fernandez, Barry University, "Non-Native Speakers of
English: Why We Teach English Composition"
Jennifer Haan, University of Dayton, "Learning from the Multilingual
ClassFaculty Development in First-Year Composition"
Lami Fofana-Kamara, Michigan State University, "Yet Another Fight to
Dismantle the Master’s Language: Publicizing Non-Native English
Speaker (Writing) Instructor (NESI) Struggles"
8-Taking Action

E.32 	 Queer (Inter)Actions: Remediating Research and
Embodying Methodology as Composition
	

This session examines the (inter)active role of remediation, consent, and
multimodality in queer methodology/ies for writing research.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: David Green, Howard University
Speakers: Jon Wargo, Michigan State University, "Remediating Research
and Composing Methodology: Inhabiting Writing and Examining
Networked Literacies through Connective Ethnography"
Casey Miles, Michigan State University, "Tracing Queer Multimodal
Methodology through the Documentary Series The Gender Project"
Kathleen Livingston, Michigan State University, "Playing with Consent:
Lyric Essays on Consent in Queer Methodology"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	143

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 143

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

E.33 	 Inter-Institutional Writing Strategies: Community College/
University Collaborations in an Urban Transfer Network
	

The roundtable discusses inter-institutional collaborations in writing studies
within an urban transfer network.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Nicole Green, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Lisa Bickmore, Salt Lake Community College
Christie Toth, University of Utah
Stephen Ruffus, Salt Lake Community College
Andrea Malouf, Salt Lake Community College
Clint Gardner, Salt Lake Community College
Nic Contreras, University of Utah
Wes Porter, University of Utah
9-Language

E.34 	 Writing across Margins and Borders
	

These panelists explore L2 writing development across a variety of
contexts.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Robin Greene, Methodist University
Speakers: Dwedor Ford, Central State University, "Writing across
Languages: Case Studies of Second Language Writers"
Zsuzsanna Reed, Central European University Budapest, "Clued-In and
Included: For the Margin of a Study on the Linguistic Challenges of
Eastern European History Students Writing in English"
Kyung Min Kim, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Writing Strategies
to Expand the Repertoire of Genres in Graduate Writing Education: A
Mutilingual Student’s Trajectory of Academic Literacy Practices and
Negotiation"
14-Writing Programs

E.35 	 Race Forever: Adventures in Writing Program Start-ups
	

In this interactive panel, presenters will share multimodal presentations
modeled after the Choose Your Own Adventure (CYOA) series, as they
trace the decisions made and actions taken during their respective writing
program start-ups.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Kristi Costello, Arkansas State University, "The Antimatter
Formula: An Emergent Microhistory of Campus Writing Support"

144

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 144

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Speakers: Airek Beauchamp, Binghamton University, SUNY, "The
Antimatter Formula: An Emergent Microhistory of Campus Writing
Support"
Dan Crocker, Southeast Missouri State University, "The Reality Machine:
Avoiding Pitfalls, Starting A New Degree"
Missy Nieveen Phegley, Southeast Missouri State University, "Ninja
Cyborg: WPA as Part-Human, Part-Robot Ninja"

E.36 	 Remembering Kent: CCCC Chairs’ Tribute
	

In this session, we gather to share stories—lively, sad, engaging, or
otherwise—about Kent Williamson. CCCC chairs from the past ten years
will lead, offering brief reminiscences about their work with Kent. Others
will be invited to share their memories as well.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Co-Chair: Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University
Co-Chair: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver
Malea Powell, Michigan State University
Gwendolyn Pough, Syracuse University
Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University
Akua Duku Anokye, Arizona State University-West
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College
Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Chris Anson, North Carolina State University

	

3-Community, Civic & Public

E.37 	 Keeping Writing Relevant and Essential in Changing
Times: Houston’s WITS (Writers in the Schools) Program
	

In this panel, administrators and writers from Houston’s Writers in the
Schools (WITS) program will describe how they have made a practice
of adjusting and expanding programming to stay not only relevant but
essential as educational culture and priorities change.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Speakers: Deborah Mouton, Writers in the Schools Program
Meggie Monahan, Writers in the Schools Program
Tina Angelo, Writers in the Schools Program

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	145

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 145

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

E.40 	 Does It Matter: Assessing Our Role as Agents of Social
Change
	

This panel begins by recognizing the power of community-based partnerships but explores whether adequate assessment practices have been
developed.

Hilton, Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, "On the Question of
the Day"
Speakers: Steve Parks, Syracuse University, "Class Politics (or Just a New
Funding Strategy?)"
Jessica Pauszek, Syracuse University, "Language and Literacy Rights (or
We’ll Just Build Our Own College)"
Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University, "Agent of Social Change (Or
Just a New Type of Scholarship?)"
Respondent: Paula Mathieu, "On Tactics and Assessment"

146

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 146

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30–7:30 p.m.
TSIG.01 	 Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy SIG
	

Our meeting offers a two-part caucus, opening with a business meeting
and concluding with opportunities for networking and collaboration.

	

Hilton Room 330, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue
  University Fort Wayne
	
Jonathan Bradshaw, Miami University of Ohio
	

2-Basic Writing

TSIG.02 	 Council of Basic Writing SIG: Contemplating Action in
the Classroom, Institution, State, Nation
	

This collaborative meeting will focus on how BW instructors can use
pedagogy to shape policies regarding writing instruction.

	

GRB Room 351C, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Elizabeth Baldridge, Illinois Central College
	
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University
	
Steve Lamos, University of Colorado Boulder
	
Jason Evans, Prairie State College
	
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College
	

14-Writing Programs

TSIG.03 	 Meeting of the International Network of
Writing-Across-the-Curriculum Programs
	

Annual CCCC session facilitated by Consultants Board, with Q and A
groups on any aspect of WAC/WID planning and administration.

	

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two

	Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California Davis
	
Discussion Leaders: Michelle Cox, Cornell University
	
Terry Zawacki, George Mason University
	
Martha Townsend, University of Missouri
	
Dilek Tokay, Sabanci University
	
David Russell, Iowa State University

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	147

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 147

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	
	
	
	
	
	

Dan Melzer, University of California, Davis
Mary McMullen-Light, Metropolitan Community College-Longview
Anne Ellen Geller, St. John’s University
Jeffrey Galin, Florida Atlantic University
Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University
Pam Childers, The Clearing House

	

3-Community, Civic & Public

TSIG.04 	 Race and Technology Special Interest Group
	

This will be the second year meeting of the Race and Technology SIG.

	

GRB Room 340A, Level Three

	Speaker: Phill Alexander, Miami University
	

7-Institutional and Professional

TSIG.05 	 TSIG for the Women’s Network: A Landscape for
Change: Our Spaces, Our Selves
	

SIG will provide discussion of women’s status in the field; opportunity
for networking, mentoring, and support for women faculty.

	

GRB Room 351D, Level Three

	Speaker: Violet Dutcher, Eastern Mennonite University, "A Landscape
  for Change: Our Spaces, Our Selves"
	

10-Professional and Technical Writing

TSIG.06 	 Writing and STEM
	

Writing and STEM is a SIG for people who study and teach writing in
and about STEM disciplines.

	

Hilton Room 329, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Mya Poe, Northeastern University
	
Jennifer Mallette, Boise State University
	
William FitzGerald, Rutgers University at Camden
	
Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University
	
Marie Paretti, Virginia Tech
	13-Theory

TSIG.07 	 Language, Linguistics, and Writing Standing Group
Business Meeting
	

A business meeting for the Language, Linguistics, and Writing Standing
Group.

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two

148

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 148

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	Co-Chairs: Craig Hancock, University at Albany
	
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester
	Speakers: Daniel Kies, College of DuPage
	
Sandra Gollin-Kies, Benedictine University
	
Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska at Omaha
	
Carolyn Ostrander, Syracuse University
	
Stella Wang, University of Rochester
	
Joleen Hanson, University of Wisconsin-Stout
	
Cornelia Paraskevas, Western Oregon University
	
Stephanie Schlitz, Bloomsburg University
	
Laura Aull, Wake Forest University
	
Mary Rist, St. Edward’s University
	
Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University
	
Olga Lambert, Benedictine University
	
Julie Amberg, York College of Pennsylvania
	
Lynn Rudloff, St. Edward’s University
	
Cameron Mozafari, University of Maryland
	
Airlie Rose, University of Massachusetts, Amherst

TSIG.08 	 Special Interest Group for Non-Native
English-Speaking Writing Instructors
	

The Special Interest Group for Non-Native English-Speaking Writing
Instructors will host a session to create a space that will foster a sense
of community, provide mutual support for reaching professional goals,
provide a forum to share research ideas and collaborate on studies, and
advocate for representation and work toward specific rights for the
group that other minority groups already have.

	

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two

	Chair: Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University
	Speakers: Mariya Tseptsura, University of New Mexico
	
Lami Fofana-Kamara, Michigan State University
	
Tatjana Schell, North Dakota State University
	

7-Institutional and Professional

TSIG.09 	 SIG: Senior, Late-Career, and Retired Professionals in
Rhet/Comp/Writing Studies
	

This year’s SIG focuses on outreach to experts in disability and access
issues, and on the needs of faculty approaching retirement.

	

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four

	Co-Chairs: Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University
	
Darsie Bowden, DePaul University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	149

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 149

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

3-Community, Civic & Public

TSIG.10 	 Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy, Research, and Literacies
	

This SIG provides opportunities for prison literacy teachers and
researchers to share opportunities for pedagogies and research.

	

Hilton Room 327, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, "Teaching in Prison:
  Pedagogy, Research, and Literacies"
	
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences,
  "Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy, Research, and Literacies"
	

2-Basic Writing

TSIG.11 	 The 2016 Council on Basic Writing Business Meeting
	

This will be a public meeting of the Council on Basic Writing Executive
Board to discuss and act upon CBW business.

	

Hilton Room 344A, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College
	
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University
	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

TSIG.12 	 Dual Enrollment Studies SIG
	

The Dual Enrollment Studies SIG will provide a space to harness
growth and understanding about current DE issues in Composition
Studies.

	

Hilton Room 333, Level Three

	Speakers: Casie Moreland, Arizona State University, Tempe
	
Christine Denecker, The University of Findlay
	

14-Writing Programs

TSIG.13 	 SIG for Untenured Writing Program Administrators
	

This group helps WPAs navigate teaching, research, and administration
in various types of programs (FYC, writing centers, WAC, and others).

	

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Tom Sura, West Virginia University
	
Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota

150

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 150

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	5-History

TSIG.14 	 National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric
	

The National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric gathers and stores
rare materials and important records of interest to CCCC researchers.

	

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island
	
O. Brian Kaufman, Quinebaug Valley Community College
	11-Research

TSIG.15 	 The Role of Reading in Composition Studies
	

This SIG is an opportunity to foster reading scholarship and to discuss
effective ways to teach reading within the writing classroom.

	

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Michael Bunn, University of Southern California, Los
  Angeles
	
Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne
	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

TSIG.16 	 Zen and the Art of English Teacher Maintenance:
Finding Wiser Ways of Being, Teaching, and Inhabiting
the Earth
	

Contemplative practices workshop and meeting of the Assembly for
Expanded Perspectives on Learning.

	

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three

	Speakers: Sharon Marshall, St. John’s University
	
Irene Papoulis, Trinity College
	
Wendy Ryden, LIU-Post
	13-Theory

TSIG.17 	 Kenneth Burke Society at CCCC
	

Annual gathering for Kenneth Burke Society members attending CCCC
to discuss KBS business, scholarly trends, and upcoming projects.

	

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three

	Speaker: Ethan Sproat, Utah Valley University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	151

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 151

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

10-Professional and Technical Writing

TSIG.19 	 Medical Rhetoric Standing Group Business Meeting
	

Annual meeting of the Medical Rhetoric Standing Group.

	

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three

	Speakers: Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati
	
Barbara Heifferon, Louisiana State University
	11-Research

TSIG.20 	 Publishing Contemporary Perspectives on Cognition
and Writing
	

The Cognition and Writing Special Interest Group will meet to discuss
publishing a book collection of research on cognition and writing.

	

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: J. Michael Rifenburg, University of North Georgia
	
Patricia Portanova, Northern Essex Community College
	
Discussion Leader: Duane Roen, Arizona State University
	

7-Institutional and Professional

TSIG.21 	 SIG Non-Western/Global Rhetorics
	

Special Interest Group inviting scholars interested in international
rhetorical studies beyond Western traditions.

	

Hilton Room 338, Level Three

	Speakers: Keith Lloyd, Kent State University
	
Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University
	
Nicole Khoury, American University of Beirut
	
Tamara Bassam Issak, Syracuse University
	13-Theory

TSIG.22 	 Rhetoric’s Histories, Theories, Pedagogies Special
Interest Group
	

The "Rhetoric’s Histories, Theories, Pedagogies" Special Interest
Group was formed in 2013 to foster conversations about rhetoric at
CCCC.

	

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Roxanne Mountford, University of Oklahoma
	
Lois Agnew, Syracuse University
	Speakers: Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University
	
Bo Wang, California State University, Fresno
	
Ralph Cintron, University of Illinois at Chicago
	
Jack Selzer, Penn State University
	
Jeff Walker, University of Texas at Austin
152

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 152

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

8-Taking Action

TSIG.23 	 International Writing Centers Association: Acting upon
Ideas
	

Writing center professionals will discuss our strategic plan for the
coming years.

	

Hilton 339B, Level Three

	Speakers: Harry Denny, Purdue University
	
Amber Jensen, George Mason University
	
Shareen Grogan, National University
	
Kevin Dvorak, Nova Southeastern University
	
Alanna Bitzel, The University of Texas at Austin
	11-Research

TSIG.24 	 Disability Studies Standing Group
	

This will be a meeting of the standing group for Disability Studies,
focusing on networking and sharing research.

	

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three

	Chair: Tara Wood, Rockford University

TSIG.25 	Teaching for Transfer
	

The Teaching for Transfer (TFT) curriculum includes three interlocking
components: (1) key terms; (2) systematic reflection; and (3) students’
Theory of Writing, articulated in a final assignment. Research demonstrates that in completing the course, students develop a knowledge of
writing available for framing new writing tasks. In this Special Interest
Group session, we’ll introduce TFT quickly before breaking into small
sessions addressing several issues, including misconceptions about
TFT; TFT in FYC; TFT in upper-level writing courses; and specific
adaptations to the TFT curriculum.

	

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four

	Speakers: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, Tallahassee
	
Erin Workman, Florida State University, Tallahassee
	
Kara Taczak, University of Denver, CO
	
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University
	
Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	153

a1-154-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 153

3/2/16 5:58 PM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.26 	Second Language Writing Standing Group Meeting
	
GRB Room 351B, Level Three
	Co-Chairs: Katie Silvester, Indiana University
	
Pisarn Bee Chamcharatsri, University of New Mexico

F.36 	 Taking Action Workshop: Naming and Narrowing
Refer to page 16 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Glenda Eoyang, HSD Institute

Poster Session
Hilton Sky Walk, Level Two
Corpus in Action: Creating Student-Centered and Context-Specific
Corpora to Increase Awareness of Students’ Literacy Practices for
Course Design and Classroom Mutuality
Creating corpora for writing courses can give insight into students’ local
iteracies and influence mutuality in the writing classroom.
Yasmin Rioux, University of Wisconsin-Platteville
Curating the Research Assemblage: Methodology as Ethical Inter/action
This poster frames research methodology as an assemblage with curatorial
power, enabling ethical action through inter/active multimodality.
Elizabeth Catchings, University of California, Irvine
Digital Mix: The Landscape of Digital Pedagogy in the Writing and
Communication Classroom
Our survey results describe attitudes, preferences, and practices regarding
digital pedagogy in writing and communication classrooms.
Halcyon Lawrence, Georgia Institute of Technology
Liz Hutter, Georgia Institute of Technology
Joy Robinson, University of Alabama
Lisa Dusenberry, Armstrong State University

164

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 164

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Disciplinography of Rhet/Comp on Social Media: What Are We Doing in
Our Facebook Groups?
A content analysis of FB groups in Rhet/Comp to examine how their functions
and member relationships help form disciplinary identity.
Chen Chen, North Carolina State University
Generation Hashtag: Activism and Viral Online Rhetoric in 140
Characters or Less
This presenter will show how online interaction through shortened digital
rhetoric is forming a new discourse in political activism.
Kaitlyn Clark, California State University, Los Angeles
Moving between the Military and Academy
When individuals move between the military & higher education how do they
recognize and negotiate contradictory expectations?
Catherine St. Pierre, Ohio State University/UPJ
Reshaping Virtual Spaces: Using the College Writing Center to Create and
Deliver Information Literacy Resources to Faculty
The Writing Center created faculty-focused resources (in D2L) to promote
WAC and explain information literacy to promote student success.
Nikki Borrenpohl, John A. Logan College
Matt Garrison, John A Logan College
The Self as Subject: Strategies for Acting Up and Talking Back
This poster explores using multimodal, multidisciplinary assignment design to
encourage skills transfer from FYC to advanced WID courses.
Bonnie Erwin, Wilmington College
Marta Wilkinson, Wilmington College
(Un)Planning FYC: Using a Translingual Approach to Course Design,
Avoiding Problematic Assumptions
The poster presentation will display results of teacher research using nonassumptive pedagogy in an American FYC course in South America.
Morgan Gross, Ball State University
Writing through Big Data: Using MassMine in the Advanced Writing
Classroom
This poster displays the results of student research completed within the
University of Florida class: "Writing through Big Data."
Aaron Beveridge, University of Florida

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 165

165

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.01 	 Writing Feminism: Negotiating for Action across Public
Spheres

The presenters tap into key scenes in which feminist writing scholars
challenge asymmetrical power and disrupt conventional ways of arguing.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Shareen Grogan, National University
Speakers: Shirley Logan, University of Maryland
Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University
Joyce Irene Middleton, East Carolina University
Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University
10-Professional and Technical Writing

F.02 	 Rhetorics of Health and Medicine: A Roundtable
Examining the Breadth and future actions of an
Emerging Sub-Field

The roundtable addresses the wealth of current & future research areas in
medical rhetoric and looks forward to future research actions.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Hollis, Norcross High School
Speakers: Jane Detweiler, University of Nevada, Reno, "Rhetoricizing
	 Medical Risk/Medicalizing Rhetoric of Risk: An Intersection for
"Healthier" Communications Research and Teaching across
Disciplines"
Kirk St. Amant, East Carolina University, "Expanding the Rhetoric of
Health and Medicine to Global Contexts"
Lora Arduser, University of Cincinnati, "Medical Rhetoric as Activism:
Public Discourse on Reproductive Rights"
Barbara Heifferon, Louisiana State University, "Expanding the Rhetoric of
Health and Medicine to Global Contexts"
Drew Holladay, University of Louisville, "The Rhetoric of Mental Health:
Psychiatry, Disability, and Neurorhetorics"
Amy Koerber, Texas Tech University, "Medical Rhetoric as Activism:
Public Discourse on Reproductive Rights"
Erin A. Frost, East Carolina University, "Complicating Standard Care:
Changing Public Discourses through Medical Digital Imaging
Technologies"

166

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 166

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

11-Research

F.03 	 Beyond Fundamentalism: Pedagogical Implications
from Three Empirical Studies of Overlooked Christian
Rhetorics
Christian rhetorics—jeremiad, secular, and aspirational—that shape
student writing in surprising ways. Implications for teaching.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Steffen Guenzel, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee
Will Penman, Carnegie Mellon
Emily Cope, York College of Pennsylvania
Roxanne Mountford, University of Oklahoma
14-Writing Programs

F.04 	 Supporting the Future of the Field: A Roundtable on
Graduate Digital Pedagogy

This roundtable offers strategies for supporting graduate digital pedagogy
by describing an experimental peer-led practicum.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Anna Gurley, University of Oklahoma
Speakers: Lauren Hall, University of Pittsburgh
Carrie Hall, University of Pittsburgh
Jean Ferguson Carr, University of Pittsburgh
Kelsey Cameron, University of Pittsburgh
Kerry Banazek, University of Pittsburgh
Noel Tague, University of Pittsburgh
Katie Bird, University of Pittsburgh
11-Research

F.05 	 Race and Writing Methods: Investigating Racism through
Autoethnography, History, and Technology
Our panel investigates racial methodology, emphasizing autoethnography,
historiography, and technology.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Christopher Carter, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Iris Ruiz, University of California Merced
James Chase Sanchez, Texas Christian University
Alexandria Lockett, Spelman College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 167

167

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

F.06 	 Beyond the Workshop: Experiments in Big Comp

We describe four approaches to teaching writing in large classes, arguing
that the small workshop need not be the default format for comp.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Joleen Hanson, University of Wisconsin-Stout
Speakers: Kim Jaxon, California State University, Chico, "Epic
Composition"
Tom Fox, California State University, Chico, "Epic Composition"
David Kellogg, Coastal Carolina University, "Leveraging Student
Expertise in a Scientific Writing Class"
Laura Field, Montclair State University, "Space, Flexibility, Spontaneity:
A Writing Studio Pilot Model"
Joseph Harris, University of Delaware, "The Large Class as Teaching
Clinic"
Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University, "Space, Flexibility,
Spontaneity: A Writing Studio Pilot Mode"
8-Taking Action

F.07 	 Taking Action to Connect the Classroom and the
Community

In this session, panelists describe how to develop and sustain meaningful
community-based literacy partnerships.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Brian Harrell, University of Akron
Speakers: Emily Yasonia, California State University, Los Angeles, "The
826LA Project: Incorporating a Service Learning Component into the
English Classroom"
Petger Schaberg, University of Colorado, Boulder, "Learner-centered
Strategies for Community Engaged Writing"
David Marquard, The University of North Carolina at Pembroke,
"Blending the Binaries and Crossing the States: Connecting and
Growing a University-Based Literacy Organization from One
Academic Institution to Another"
Michael Shirzadian, The Ohio State University, "‘Pedagogies of Belonging’:
University Collaborators in the Underprivileged High School Space"

168

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 168

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

8-Taking Action

F.08 	 Activating Access: Disability in Campus, Classroom, and
Online Spaces

How can we learn from the rhetoric of disability activism and engage it in
our own work as writing teachers and administrators?

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Marathon County
Speakers: Ruth Osorio, University of Maryland, "Toward Accessible
Futures: Disability and Racial Justice Coalition-Building"
Andrew Lucchesi, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Disrupting Ability:
Student Disability Activist Rhetoric in Action"
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado Denver, "If They Can’t Get In:
Rhetorical Advocacy in College Admissions"
Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Disabled Students
and the Rhetoric of Verification in Online Writing Classes"
Respondent: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
13-Theory

F.09 	 Imagining Literate Lives: Drawing Lessons from
Narrative, Memory, and Mobility

Considers how embodied practices of imagining and remembering inform
the actions of writing students and teachers.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, South Bend
Speakers: Rachel Gramer, University of Louisville
Brice Nordquist, Syracuse University
Bronwyn T. Williams, University of Louisville
8-Taking Action

F.10 	 Changing Demographics: No Longer a Monolingual
Nation

This panel discusses the importance of dual-language issues within
composition, technical communication, and the workplace.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University
Speakers: Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University San Marcos,
"Opening the Gateway: The Power of Dual Language Composition
Courses"
Kendall Leon, Portland State University
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 169

169

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Alyssa Crow, University of Utah, "Beyond the Literacy Narrative:
Promoting Critical Language Awareness and Positive Language
Attitudes in First-Year Writing"
Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "English-Spanish Workplace
Writing: Its Many Benefits"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

F.11 	 Asking Students to Do and to Be

Eportfolios and embedded reflection allow insight into student thinking
about who they are becoming as scholars, professionals, and citizens.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Barbara Blakely, Iowa State University
Speakers: Eric York, Iowa State University
Bryan Lutz, Iowa State University, "Complementing the Web-sensible
Model: Towards a Post-postmodern Understanding of Identity
Construction through ePortfolio Composition"
Kathy Rose, Iowa State University, "Encouraging Deep Learning through
Eportfolios"
Barbara Blakely, Iowa State University, "Student Reflections on the E in
Eportfolio: Beyond Browsers to Producers"
14-Writing Programs

F.12 	 We Know Where the Action Is: It’s in Writing Fellows (and
We Got the Data to Prove It)

This session reports on a year-long quantitative empirical study of Writing
Fellows at a large, public, Masters-comprehensive university.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University
Speakers: Michelle Hager, San Jose State University, "Writing Centers
and Writing Fellows: Forging Complementary Paths for Writing
Support Services"
Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University, "Measuring What Matters in
Writing Fellows Programs"
Cindy Baer, San Jose State University
Richard McNabb, San Jose State University, "Writing Fellows as
Instruments of Institutional Change"
Shane Diven, San Jose State University, "On the Front Lines: Embedded
Instruction and the Developing Writer"

170

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 170

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

13-Theory

F.13 	 New/Now Cognitivism: Strategies for Theory and
"Literate Action"

Five researchers draw distinctions between cognitive models of writing on
one hand and neuroscientific models on the other hand.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Speakers: Jose Gomez, University of Texas at El Paso, "Connections
between Memory, Neuroplasticity, and Writing: Implications for the
Field of Rhetoric and Writing Studies"
Airlie Rose, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, "Audible Voice in
Written Text"
Erin Williams, University of Saint Francis, "Toward a Second-Generation
Cognitive Rhetoric"
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester, "Relevance and Sentence
Flow"
Brian Larson, Georgia Institute of Technology, "Relevance, Cognitive
Environment, and Audience"
2-Basic Writing

F.14 	 Truth or Consequences: When Project-based Pedagogy
Pushes Back on Process

The approach in this panel allows students to draw from within a rhetorical ecology toward outcomes that cannot be determined in advance.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Joshua Hilst, Utah Valley University
Speakers: Jacqueline Preston, Utah Valley University, "Consequences and
Connections: Writing as Assemblage"
Joshua Hilst, Utah Valley University, "Notes toward a Consequentialist
Pedagogy"
Benjamin Goodwin, Utah Valley University, "Pro-Crastination: Revising
the Consequences for "Zero-Hour" Writers"
Elena Garcia, Utah Valley University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 171

171

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

F.15 	 Re-Actions: A Closer Look at Student Invention across
Different Sites

Qualitative research into how students recognize influence and generate
ideas across their writing processes.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Cassie Hemstrom, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Jason Wirtz, Hunter College
Patricia Medved, St. John’s University
Michael Reich, St, John’s University
3-Community, Civic & Public

F.16 	 Everyday Authors and Acts of Writing

This panel considers how economic and technological upheaval have
motivated the spread of "authorial consciousness."

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University
Speakers: Deborah Brandt, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota
Timothy Laquintano, Lafayette College
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

F.17 	 Student Voices: Learning Styles and Transitional
Rhetorics
This panel looks at different forms of student voices.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Thomas Henry, Utah Valley University
Speakers: Talitha May, Ohio University, "Transitional Rhetorics: An
Ontological Pedagogy for the Composition Classroom"
Margaret Gonzales, Texas Lutheran University, "Un-Learning How to
Write: Metacognition and Transformation in Advanced Composition"
Nuwar Mawlawi Diab, Lebanese American University, "Engagement,
Error Revision, and Reflection: Tools to Reduce Learners’ Lexical
Errors"
8-Taking Action

F.18 	 Taking Action through the News Media

The focus will be on gaining access to public media by 3 presentations on
strategies followed by audience participation in breakout groups.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two

172

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 172

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Speakers: Millie Davis, National Council of Teachers of English,
"Strategies and Tactics for Speaking to the Wider Public about Writing"
Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "Show Don’t Tell:
The Rhetoric of Effective Presentations and Pitches to the Media"
David Slomp, University of Lethbridge, "Engaging Media in the Pursuit
of Action: Strategies for Reframing Public Discourse on Writing
Assessment"
13-Theory

F.19 	 Don’t Get Emotional: Teaching Writing and the Study of
Emotional States
This panel explores the need to consider emotion and well-being in the
teaching of writing.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Roberta Henson, Indiana Wesleyan University
Speakers: Courtney Patrick, Bay Path University, "Cultural Pre/
Postmemory and Empathy: Why We Need to Embrace Trauma
Writing"
Summer Dickinson, Mid-Plains Community College, "Sensation and
Writing: Action for Somatic Minded Writing Instruction"
Jill Belli, New York City College of Technology, CUNY, "Writing
Well-Being into our Pedagogy, Scholarship, & Discipline"
5-History

F.20 	 Women and the Development of Composition Studies

This panel examines the role that Ann Berthoff, Janet Emig, Andrea
Lunsford, and Geneva Smitherman played in shaping composition studies.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Christina LaVecchia, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Russel Durst, University of Cincinnati, "Creating an Academic
Field with a Political Agenda: Janet Emig and Composition Studies"
Christina LaVecchia, University of Cincinnati, "Examining Ann E.
Berthoff’s Philosophical Method"
Janine Morris, University of Cincinnati, "Reclaiming Composition and
Rhetoric: Andrea Lunsford’s Feminist Historicizations"
Albertina Walker-Hughey, Texas Southern University, "Revolution at
Its Core: Geneva Smitherman’s Perennial Authority in Rhetoric and
Composition"
Respondent: Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 173

173

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

8-Taking Action

F.21 	 Taking Action in WAC Work: The Student Anthology on
Race

This panel describes a grassroots WAC effort at one university to compile,
edit, and publish an anthology of student writings about race.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Hewerdine, Arizona Western College
Speakers: Megan Schoen, La Salle University
Karen Reardon, La Salle University
Jaime Longo, La Salle University
Elizabeth Allan, Oakland University
6-Information Technologies

F.22 	 Critical Praxis in Action: Discovering New Modes of
Resistance in Digital Publics

Theoretical approaches and applications for resistance, activism, and
citizenship in digital public spheres.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Lee Hibbard, University of Alabama in Huntsville
Speakers: Laura Williams, Georgia State University, "Epistemology
as Activism: Cooperative Meaning-Making and Critical
CyberCitizenship"
Clarissa Walker, University of Rhode Island, "The Second Field Site of
Cyberactivism: Modes of Critical Praxis in Blogging Public Spheres"
Matthew Vetter, Ohio University, "The Online Encyclopedia [White,
Western Males] Can Edit: Critical Digital Praxis in Wikipedia"
8-Taking Action

F.23 	 Writing for Action, Writing for Change

This panel offers strategies for engaging in public conversations about
education policy.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Lyra Hilliard, University of Maryland
Speakers: Katie Rose Guest Pryal, Pryal Consulting, Inc., "Writing for
Action: A Crash Course in Journalism Genres"
Tim McCormack, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, "An Un-strategic
Response: The Rhetorical Story of the End of Remediation"
Patricia Dunn, Stony Brook University, "What Makes Legislators Listen?
Means of Persuasion Outside the Academy"

174

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 174

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

F.24 	 Glitches as (Re)Action: Creating, Learning from, and
Responding to Moments of Rhetorical Failure

Reframing failure as (re)action, this panel seeks to explore and challenge
moments when we don’t achieve our intended rhetorical objective.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Titcha Ho, Indiana University of Pennsylvania/Baruch College,
CUNY
Speakers: Rory Lee, Ball State University, "Why am I Getting
Downvoted?: The Yakarma of Rhetorical Failure"
Morgan Leckie, Miami University, "Why am I Getting Downvoted?:
The Yakarma of Rhetorical Failure"
Kevin Rutherford, Miami University, "’Glitch’ing Our Way to
Collaborating with Technology"
Elizabeth Saur, Miami University, "Feeling It Out: Normalizing
Pedagogical Failure as (Re)Action"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

F.25 	 Writing Program Administration in an Age of Reform

Evidence-based discussion of political conditions affecting writing
programs, with background, stakeholder review, and assessment strategies.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Amy Hodges Hamilton, Belmont University
Speakers: Fredrik deBoer, Purdue University
Tristan Abbott, Salem State University
Laurie Cubbison, Radford University
8-Taking Action

F.26 	 Environmental and Scientific Rhetoric in Action

This panel addresses environmental and scientific controversies and their
extensive networks as well as methods for active engagement.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Tanya Zarlengo, University of South Florida
Speakers: Ryan Blank, University of South Florida, "Rhetoric as Taking
Action: The Laguna Atascosa National Wildlife Refuge and the
Challenges of Conservation"
Tiffany Wilgar Boyles, University of South Florida, "Seeing Stardust:
Class, Culture, and The Nevada Test Site"
Stephanie Phillips, University of South Florida, "GMOsquitoes:
Controversy over the Release of Genetically Modified Mosquitoes
in the Florida Keys"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 175

175

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

9-Language

F.27 	 We Are Not Color Blind: Empowering Spanglish and
Other Types of Code Switching
This panel looks at code switching and the benefits it brings to the
composition student.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Jessica Shumake, University of Arizona
Speakers: Maria Carvajal, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"Spanglish in the Composition ClassLeveraging Students’ Rhetorical
Code-Switching Practices for Academic Writing"
Alyssa Cavazos, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, "Multilingualism in Composition Studies: Future Writing Educators Enact
Multilingual Writing Strategies in Academic Research and Writing
Pedagogies"
Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, "Taking Responsibility:
Identifying and Challenging Colorblindness in Talk about Student
Writing"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

F.28 	 Results of a Study on the Status of the Multi-major
Professional Writing Course in U.S. Institutions of
Higher Education

The research team reports on a national survey on the status of the
multi-major professional writing course in 2- and 4-year colleges.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Alice Horning, Oakland University
Speakers: Sarah Read, DePaul University
Mike Michaud, Rhode Island College, Kingston
Theresa Bailey, DePaul University
11-Research

F.29 	 Research in Multimodal Composition, Literacies, and
Assessment

Panelists will present their research on the impact of multimodality on our
disciplinary research methods and our students’ composing practices.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Gavin Hurley, Lasell College
Speakers: Sharon Sieber, Idaho State University, "The Great Multimodal
Methodological Beatdown: Defending Composition’s Disciplinary
Identity in Interdisciplinary Departments of English"

176

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 176

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Cynthia Mitchell, University of Central Florida, "New Literacies in
Action: Broadening the Possibilities for Transfer"
Francis Macarthy, Illinois State University, "Write, Type, Record:
The Effects of Multimodality on Student Composing Processes and
Outcomes"
Kathleen Baldwin, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Multimodal
Assessment in Action: ‘What We Really Value’ in New Media Texts"
Angela Petit, GLC Solutions, "The Great Multimodal Methodological
Beatdown: Defending Composition’s Disciplinary Identity in
Interdisciplinary Departments of English"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

F.30 	 Teaching Reading for Writing: Action-Oriented
Approaches

We introduce specific pedagogical strategies & processes to help students
develop & demonstrate skills for successful reading & writing.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish
Speakers: Gregory Adams, University of Nebraska Omaha, "New
Assessments for New Reading"
Michael Bunn, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
"Promoting Transfer: Teaching Students to Read Like a Writer"
Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish, "Reading to Learn in Online Writing
Settings"
13-Theory

F.31 	 Challenging the Rhetoric of Non-Neurotypicality:
Documents, Stories, Memories

This panel challenges our terms and conceptions of non-neurotypicality
through and analysis of medical documents and storytelling.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Amy Wrobel Jamieson, Bowling Green State University
Speakers: Diane Scrofano, Moorpark College, "Memoirs of Mental Illness
as Illuminated by Illness and Disability Narrative Theory"
Dirk Remley, Kent State University, "Calling the Brain to Action: Neural
Attributes of Multimodal Persuasive Messages"
Elisabeth Miller, University of Wisconsin - Madison, ""I left the writing
behind": Aphasia, "Good" Writing, and Resisting Accommodation"
Elsa Martin, University of Texas at El Paso, "The Recategorization of
Autism Spectrum Disorder in the DSM-V: Public Uptake and the
Recategorization of Identities."

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 177

177

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

4-Creative Writing

F.32 	 Creative Nonfiction: Exploring the History and Imagining
the Future of an Active Genre

Creative nonfiction shapes and reflects the social and political dimensions
of both disciplinary conversations and classroom pedagogy.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Speakers: Irene Papoulis, Trinity College
Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph’s University, "The Literary, Feminist,
and Pedagogical Roots of Creative Nonfiction in Composition Studies"
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph’s University, "Will Creative Nonfiction Please
Stand Up? Creative Nonfiction and Composition Studies"
13-Theory

F.33 	 Networking the Discipline: Theorizing Assumptions,
Offering Change

This panel explores how theories of circulation, ecology, and networks can
add to our understandings of the field.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Darin Jensen, Metropolitan Community College
Speakers: Dan Ehrenfeld, UMass Amherst, "Material Circulation and the
Networked Public Sphere: Rethinking the Social and Spatial Politics of
the "Public Turn""
Amy Williams, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "Reading Is Still the
Path: Theorizing Literacy through Metaphors of Movement"
Kristopher Lotier, Hofstra University, "How to Not Teach Writing:
Postprocess Theory, Individualism, and Student Learning"
3-Community, Civic & Public

F.34 	 "Listen!" The Legend of the Social Justice Warrior, or
Games and Social Advocacy

We explore three ways games have become powerful political-rhetorical
artifacts that create social change and open doors for activism & advocacy.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University
Speakers: Alex Layne, Purdue University, "Not Your Mama’s Social Justice Warriors: On Advocacy and Activism in the Age of #GamerGate"
Samantha Blackmon, Purdue University, "Not Your Mama’s Social Justice
Warriors: On Advocacy and Activism in the Age of #GamerGate"
Lauren Woolbright, Clemson University, "Designs That Play: Why
Scholars Should Design Games"

178

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 178

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Katherine Hanzalik, Clemson University, "Setting an (Activist) Place at
the Table: TRPGs as Tools of Political Subversion"
Alisha Karabinus, Purdue University, "Not Your Mama’s Social Justice
Warriors: On Advocacy and Activism in the Age of #GamerGate"
8-Taking Action

F.35 	 From Analysis to Action: The NCTE Policy Analysis
Initiative’s Role in Promoting Policy Change

Roundtable explores the consequences/limitations of NCTE’s Policy
Analysis Initiative, ending with time for local strategy development.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College
Speakers: Janice Walker, Georgia Southern University, "Analysts and
Advocates: Knowledge and Action"
Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, "Starting a Local
Discussion: Policy Analysis for the People"
Katherine V. Wills, Indiana University Purdue University, Columbus,
"Policy Analysts: The Personal, the Political, and the Professional"
Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, "Policy Analysis as a
Habit of Mind"
Respondents: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma
Michael Gos, Lee College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 179

179

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

G Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
G.36 	 Taking Action Workshop: Building Alliances
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Sarah Scanlon, Arkansas State Director for Bernie 2016

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.01 	 The Purposes of Required Writing?

Should required writing courses serve students, institutions, "society," or
"the discipline?" 3 positions, with complex implications.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University
Speakers: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, "Requiring
All the Available Resources: Designing the Visual into First-year
Composition (FYC) Curricula and Programs"
Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Required
Writing: Institutional Logics and Imperatives meet Student
Development"
Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver, "Required Writing as a Liberal
Art, in the Twilight of the Liberal Arts"
Respondent: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College
9-Language

G.02 	 Theory, Research, and Action: New Strategies for
Students’ Right to Their Own Language

This panel will examine, strategize, and theorize new possibilities for
addressing language diversity in Writing classrooms.

Hilton, Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical College
Speakers: Bonnie Williams, California State University Fullerton,
"Teaching Language Diversity in ‘Official English’ States: Using Improvisation in Composition Instruction to Inspire Change in the ‘O.C.’"

180

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 180

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Sherita Roundtree, The Ohio State University, "Are We Better Citizens
Yet?: Language Politics, Diversity Requirements, and Student Citizens
in the Writing Classroom"
April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, "Writing While Black:
Cultural and Linguistic Mismatch, Dehumanization, and Resistance in
a Basic Writing Classroom"
Kedra James, North Carolina Wesleyan College, "You Don’t Know My
Story: Valuing Life Experience and African American Language in
Basic Writing Courses"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

G.03 	 Taking Action, Building Community, and Sponsoring
Literacy with Stanford’s Notation in Science
Communication

The panel uses Notation, an upper-division ePortfolio WAC initiative
called the Notation in Science Communication (NSC), as an example of
the challenges and obstacles of taking action to create opportunities for
students to write beyond the required composition sequence in ways that
support multimodal writing and learning in situated scientific contexts.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Christine Alfano, Stanford University
Speakers: Marvin Diogenes, Stanford University
Jennifer Stonaker, Stanford University
Cassie Wright, Southern New Hampshire University
13-Theory

G.04 	 Listening Strategies for Feminist and Queer Action:
Encountering an Erotic Ethics

This panel brings Ratcliffe’s 2005 work on rhetorical listening into contact
with scholarship on ethics and affect in feminist-queer theory.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Ellsworth, The New School for Liberal Arts
Speakers: Devon Kehler, University of Arizona, "Becoming Responsibly
Respond-able: Voice Events and Generative Listening"
Meridith Kruse, University of Southern California, "Foucault’s Queer
Ethical Ear"
Oren Whightsel, Lincoln College, "She Was Spinning: Rhetorical Listening
and Queer Disidentification"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 181

181

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

8-Taking Action

G.05 	 Better Learning Technologies: Taking Action to Reframe
Educational Technology Development for Writers and
Writing Teachers
An action agenda to create better technologies that support learning in
writing classrooms.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Erika Johnson, Texas Woman’s University
Speakers: Melissa Graham Meeks, Gordon State College, "What Is
Excellent Service and How Do We Know It When We See It?"
Michael McLeod, Michigan State University, "Engineering Better Writing
Experiences for Teachers and Learners"
William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, "What Is a Learning
Technology and How Do We Know One When We See One?"
11-Research

G.06 	 Long-Term Research Collaborations: Strategy, Identity,
Failure, and Moves toward Future Action
Analytical stories of long-term research collaborations: success/failure,
interpersonal issues, cultural rhetorics, and best practices.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Margaret Price, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University,
"Writing as Collective Making: On Failure and Listening for What
Needs to Be Told"
Margaret Price, Spelman College, "Shiny Happy Disabled People Holding
Hands"
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, "Writing as Collective Making:
On Failure and Listening for What Needs to Be Told"
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, "When Projects Fail
and Succeed: Negotiating Publication Acceptances and Rejections in
Collaborative Projects"
Daisy Levy, Southern Vermont College, "Writing as Collective Making:
On Failure and Listening for What Needs to Be Told"
Cindy Selfe, The Ohio State University, "Tactics for Long-term
Collaborations"
Collin Craig, St. John’s University, "When Projects Fail and Succeed:
Negotiating Publication Acceptances and Rejections in Collaborative
Projects"

182

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 182

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.07 	 Action Research, Active Reflection: Interrogating the
Threshold Concepts of Teaching First-Year Writing

In this session, instructors explore how a threshold concepts approach
informed their (and their students’) experiences in the classroom.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Jay Jordan, University of Utah
Speakers: Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, "A Threshold Concepts
Framework for Learning to Teach First-Year Writing"
Marcel Brousseau, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Border
Troubles: Teaching and Learning with Threshold Concepts in Two
Disciplines"
Colin Johnson, Boise State University, "Expectations and Authority: Using
Threshold Concepts to Recalibrate Student-Instructor Dynamics in the
First-Year Writing Classroom"
Cheryl McKell, Boise State University, "When Identities Converge at the
	 Border: Examining the Approach to Threshold Concepts from Numerous
	 Positions as a Learner"
Shannon Brennan, University of California, Los Angeles, "Standing on the
Threshold: Teaching (about) Disciplinary Knowledge"
3-Community, Civic & Public

G.08 	 Negotiating Perception/Deception: Strategies toward
Promoting Active Citizenry in the Community College
Composition Classroom

Panelists explore ways to teach rhetorical premises that promote critical
engagement and active citizenry.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Jordan Molina, Santa Barbara City College
Speakers: Calin Anderson, Saddleback College
Monica Rodriguez, Palomar College
Chad Kelly, San Diego Mesa College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 183

183

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.09 	 The ContAct Zone: Lived Experience as Pedagogy
for Action

Using contact zone theory, this panel links cultural, historical, and
multimodal literacies with composition students’ lived experiences.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: April Julier, Brazosport College
Speakers: Justin Vaught, University of Alabama
Cynthia Mwenja, The University of Alabama
Kristen Lushington, University of Alabama
Krystin Gollihue, North Carolina State University
14-Writing Programs

G.10 	 Advocacy through Tutor Cultural Awareness and Action
This session explores ways in which tutors can work towards a broader
understanding of cultural competencies in writing centers.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Michael Turner, Northeastern University, "When Emotions are
Centered: Tutor Reflexivity and Writing Center Culture"
John Marinan, Georgia Gwinett College, "Where Are We Now? The
Emergence and Consequences of the Generative Metaphor in Writing
Center Research on Students with ASD"
Jennifer Maloy, Queensborough Community College, "The Role of
Single-Sex Tutoring Sessions in ESL Students’ Writing Journeys"
Mohamad Mazyar Nikoui-Tehrani, Rutgers University, "The Role of
Single-Sex Tutoring Sessions in ESL Students’ Writing Journeys"
8-Taking Action

G.11 	 Taking Activist Action: Identity, Community, Pedagogy
Teachers of writing discuss activist classrooms where the practice of
writing is intimately bound to the politics of identity & community.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "This Seems Queer:
Writing against Conventions"
Speakers: Jennifer Perrine, Drake University, "Who Is the Activist Here?:
Students Writing for Change"
Lauren Gatti, University of Nebraska, "Speaking Back: On Public Discourse, Political Action, and Literacy Learning in a Preservice Teaching
Environment"

184

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 184

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Rachael Wendler Shah, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Activism from
the ‘Other Side’: Community Members’ Perspectives of Collaborating
with College Students"
Brandon Som, University of Southern California, "Citation as Activism:
Listening and Writing in the Present Moment"
Jessica Masterson, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Speaking Back: On
Public Discourse, Political Action, and Literacy Learning in a Preservice Teaching Environment"
13-Theory

G.12 	 Writing’s Wreckage: What Happens When Writing Fails

This panel explores the less-than-successful moments of writing. What
does it mean when writing is abandoned, wrecked, lost, or broken?

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Christine Kervina, Northern Virginia Community CollegeAnnandale
Speakers: Jenny Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Archival
Wreckage: The Case of Oyneg Shabbos"
Casey Boyle, University of Texas, Austin, "In Defense of Nothing"
Michael Bernard-Donals, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Writing
with Abandon"
Victor Vitanza, Clemson University
5-History

G.13 	 Archiving Actions: Recasting Women’s Rhetorical Spaces
These presentations examine four sites of women’s activist rhetorics in
political, religious, and community spaces.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Brian Fehler, Texas Woman’s University
Speakers: Liane Malinowski, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Women Rewriting Home and Neighborhood on Chicago’s West Side,
1889-1915"
Tiffany Kinney, University of Utah, "Colliding Radicalism and Religion:
Mobilizing Feminism for Women in the Mormon Church"
Erin Banks-Kirkham, La Sierra University, "Reagan, Rhetoric, and
Women Voters: Women’s Representation through Language in the 1980
Reagan Campaign for President"
Brian Fehler, Texas Woman’s University, "Archives of Action: Toward
Pedagogies of Feminist Rhetorical Historiography"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 185

185

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.14 	 A New Prescription for Dialogic Action: Reframing the
Writing Conference as a Contact Zone

Framing the writing conference as a contact zone enables evaluation of
how to include student perspectives in fostering writing knowledge.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Carrie Kilfoil, University of Indianapolis, IN
Speakers: Angie Carter, Utah Valley University & IUP, "A New
Prescription for Dialogic Action: Reframing the Writing Conference
as a Contact Zone"
Aaron Gates, Utah Valley University, "A New Prescription for Dialogic
Action: Reframing the Writing Conference as a Contact Zone"
Christopher Lee, Utah Valley University, Orem, "A New Prescription for
Dialogic Action: Reframing the Writing Conference as a Contact Zone"
11-Research

G.15 	 Using Research as a Writing Strategy to Promote Literacy
Acquisition and Advocacy of Writing Instruction across
Geographic and Disciplinary Contexts
This panel presents 4 empirical projects located in South America, US,
and Hawaiʻi focused on writing and disciplinary literacy practices.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Lisa King, University of Tennessee-Knoxville
Speakers: Violeta Molina-Natera, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana
Cali-Colombia, "Empowering Engineering Faculty for Teaching
Writing"
Georganne Nordstrom, University of Hawaii at Manoa, "Qualitative
Research as Critical Pedagogy: Working with Students as
Co-Researchers to Promote Agency and Critical Literacy"
Elizabeth Narvaez-Cardona, University of California, Santa Barbara,
"Latin-American Writing Initiatives in Engineering"
Charlyne Sarmiento, Univeristy of California, Santa Barbara, "Writing in
the Science Lab: A Longitudinal Study of Undergraduates Developing
Their Scientific Literacy"

186

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 186

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.16 	 After the Essay: Multimodal Revisions to FYC

These speakers embrace recent calls to rethink the essay in FYC through
video, gamification, and hybrid pedagogies.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Russell Kirkscey, Texas Tech University
Speakers: Jennifer Fallas, UMass Dartmouth, "Meaning-Making in
Student-Produced Video Interviews: Rhetorical and Narrative Analyses
of Explorations and Reclamations of Identities in FYC Courses"
Sarah Dwyer, Valdosta State University, "Using Student Co-Research to
Investigate Gamification in First-Year Composition"
Nathan Wagner, Georgia State University, "The Academic Essay Is Dead
(and It Needs to Stay Buried)"
11-Research

G.17 	 The Archival Turn in Rhetoric and Composition: Avenues
for Research and Methodology

This panel highlights technological as well as rhetorical considerations of
producing and/or working with an archive.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Frederick-Douglass Knowles II, Three Rivers Community College
Speakers: Tatjana Schell, North Dakota State University
Miriam Mara, North Dakota State University
Jennifer Jacovitch
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.18 	 Student Identities in Classroom Contexts: Negotiating
Subjectivity and Power

This panel offers four composition perspectives on transformative actionbased pedagogies that engage the politics of location of students.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Kirsten Komara, Our Lady of the Lake University
Speakers: Chad Seader, Syracuse University
Crystal Hendricks, Syracuse University
Rachael Shapiro, Syracuse University
Kate Navickas, Syracuse University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 187

187

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

9-Language

G.19 	 Uncovering the Hidden: Composition Scholarship as
Language Activism

This panel calls for language activism that uncovers covert implications in
genre uptake, reflective writing, and institutional rhetoric.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Asao Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma
Speakers: Mandy Macklin, University of Washington, Seattle
Alison Cardinal, University of Washington Tacoma
Holly Gilman, South Seattle Community College
8-Taking Action

G.20 	 Resistance to Standardization: Taking Action in
Curriculum and Assessment

Panelists share methods for unsetting preconceived notions of students and
standardized curriculum.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Speakers: Jason McIntosh, New Mexico Highlands University, "Placing
	 Action: Place-based Writing as Resistance to Top-down Education
Reform"
Stacy Day, Georgetown University, "Taking Action through Institutional
Ethnography: Assessing What Students Are (or Aren’t) Learning about
Writing as Work"
Sara Cooper, University of Houston, "Recovering the Poetry of Form
amidst the Drift toward Formula: A Case Study of a Collaboration"
Erin Wecker, University of Montana, "Roots and Wings: Balancing Hybrid
Sources of Knowledge in the Composition Classroom"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

G.21 	 Studies in Public Writing & Entrepreneurship: Shared
Value, Design Thinking, and User Experience

Panelists examine theories and methods to enrich student engagement in
writing practices at the heart of entrepreneurship and innovation.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Lance Langdon, University of California-Irvine
Speakers: Scott Wible, University of Maryland
John Spartz, University of Wisconsin-Stout
Jonathan Maricle, University of South Carolina

188

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 188

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

11-Research

G.22 	 Build-Up, Movement, and Surprise in Cross-Border
Research: A Networked Approach

This panel explores a networked methodological approach that emerged
out of a survey-based project of 111 Canadian writing studies scholars.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University
Speakers: Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg, "How
Interdependencies Travel: Events and Temporality"
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University, "Chreodic Build-up:
Planning and Enacting a Networked Methodological Approach"
Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University, "Surprised by
Research: Learning from a Cross-Border Study"
Andrea Williams, University of Toronto, "Surprised by Research:
Learning from a Cross-Border Study"
Respondent: Roger Graves, University of Alberta
7-Institutional and Professional

G.23 	 Decolonizing Retention: Indigenous Methodologies,
SRTOL, and Contrastive Rhetoric in Composition
Pedagogy and Program Design

Critiques of retention discourse (Reichert Powell) are used to situate
critical literacies/pedagogy initiatives at an R1 institution.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College Chicago
Speakers: Rachel Sanchez, Washington State University, "An Experimental
	 Writing Center as Retention Strategy"
Beth Buyserie, Washington State University, "SRTOL Pedagogy as a
Retention Strategy"
Anna Plemons, Washington State University, "The Colonial Rhetoric of
Progress in Retention Initiatives"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 189

189

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.24 	 Disrupting Composition: Rhetorical and Activist
Pedagogies for Change

These panelists explore methods for bringing black, queer, feminist, and
indigenous activism to the writing classroom.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Erica Lange, Ohio University
Speakers: Danielle Slaughter, Georgia State University, "How
Composition Classrooms Can Use Student-Led and Black Feminist
Pedagogy for a New Generation of Activists in a Global and
Multicultural Context"
Adam Ferguson, Tompkins-Cortland Community College, "Integrated
Queer Theory in the Two-Year College ClassStructures and Field
Observations"
Yavanna Brownlee, Ohio University, Athens, "Indigenous Rhetorics and
Awareness in the Writing/Composing Classroom"
Keely Mohon, Miami University, "They Say What?: Teaching
Comparative Rhetoric in First-Year Composition to Combat
Racism against International Students"
8-Taking Action

G.25 	 Assessing Learning in Scenes of Discovery: Projection,
Reflection, and (Social) Action

We introduce a pedagogy of projection and reflection designed to discover,
assess, and address the needs of diverse learners.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University
Speakers: Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, "Directing by
Following: Operationalizing the Curriculum for Diverse Learners"
Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, "Cultivating Projections to
Enact Reflection: Making the Most of Making Mistakes"
Respondent: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University, "Framing the Actions
of Preflection"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.26 	 Developing Institution-Wide Strategies for Graduate
Writing Support in Tough Economic Times

We describe institutional supports created for L1/L2 graduate writers, then
engage the audience to capture action items for their contexts.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Thomas Lavelle, Stockholm School of Economics

190

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 190

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Speakers: Talinn Phillips, Ohio University, "Reimagining a Writing
Center for Graduate Students’ Needs"
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, "Strategic Partnerships for Graduate
Writing Support: Building a Campus-wide Support Network for L1 and
L2 Graduate Student Writers"
Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, "It Takes a Village: Situating
	 Graduate Writing and Communication for International Students in the
Context of Academic Transition and Success"
9-Language

G.27 	 Multilingualism: The New Power Language

This session discusses the importance of multilingualism in the classroom.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Jessica Lee, University of Houston
Speakers: Hem Paudel, University of Iowa, "Bridging the Gap between
Multilingualism and Multimodality through Developing a Theory of
Techno-Linguistic Mediations"
Mehtap Kocatepe, Zayed University, University College "The Impact of
Digital Out-of-Class Peer Interaction on Developing Second Language
Learners’ Information Literacy Skills"
Tong Zhang, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Empower Multilingual
Writers–Multiwriting in Second Language Learning Context"
10-Professional and Technical Writing

G.28 	 Technical Communication and Professionalization
On- and Off-line

This panel presents strategies for professionalizing technical communication students for virtual and face-to-face workplaces.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Megan Levad, University of Michigan
Speakers: Vincent Robles, Iowa State University, "Fostering SymbolicAnalytic Editing Values in Advanced Communication Students"
Dauvan Mulally, Writing Professor, "The Invisible Office: Preparing
Writing Students for the Virtual Workplace"
Scott Kowalewski, Saginaw Valley State University, "Strategic Articulation
and Knowledge Management, Assessing Forward in TPC: Internships
and Advisory Boards"
Steve Benninghoff, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Strategic
Articulation and Knowledge Management, Assessing Forward in TPC:
Internships and Advisory Boards"
Matt Baker, Iowa State University, "Fostering Symbolic-Analytic Editing
Values in Advanced Communication Students"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 191

191

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

11-Research

G.29 	 Uncovering Students’ Dispositions toward Writing: Taking
Action on Stereotype Threat in Writing Classes through
New Research
Discusses cross-institutional empirical research on writing dispositions in
order to counter stereotype threat in writing classrooms.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University
Speakers: Andrew Suralski, University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire,
"Identifying Conditions for Stereotype Threat in First-Year
Composition: The Connection between Dispositions and Mindsets"
Vanessa Kraemer Sohan, Florida International University, ""I ____
Writing": Measuring Students’ Dispositions at a Hispanic Serving
Institution"
Shevaun Watson, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Studying
Stereotype Threat: Methodological Concerns and Action-Oriented
Advice"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.30 	 Respecting Rhetorical Choices: Coding as a Way of
Reading L2 Writing

Four WPAs examine the benefits and limitations of using rhetoricallybased coding practices to read and assess L2 student writing.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Holly Bauer, University of California, San Diego
Speakers: Madeleine Picciotto, University of California, San Diego,
"Coding and Code-Switching: Tutor Training and L2 Writers"
Holly Bauer, University of California, San Diego, "Coding and Its
Limitations: FYC and the L2 Writer"
Karen Gocsik, University of California, San Diego, "Coding as a Way of
Reading"
Jeff Gagnon, University of California, San Diego, "Reading L2 Papers in a
Writing-Intensive Content Course"
14-Writing Programs

G.32 	 Alumni in Action: Showing the Value of Degree Programs
in Writing by Reflecting on the Work of Their Alumni
Reports on research about paths taken by alumni of degree programs in
writing and the implications for program design.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three

192

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 192

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Chair: Jennifer Light, Indiana Wesleyan University
Speakers: Ellen Schendel, Grand Valley State University
Christopher Toth, Grand Valley State University
Laurence Jose, Grand Valley State University
5-History

G.33 	 Composing Activist Historiographies

This panel explores the rhetorical, interventionist, and activist work of
historiography.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University
Speakers: KJ Rawson, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester
Elizabeth Ellis, University of Maryland
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
13-Theory

G.34 	 Rhetorics of Disruption

This panel explores resistance to the terminologies associated with power
and power structures.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Speakers: Joshua Barsczewski, University of Massachusetts, "Grinding
Rhetorics: Embodiment and Agency in Geosocial Networks"
Justin Hatch, University of Texas at Austin, "Civility as Suppression:
COINTELPRO and Responding to Black Power"
Elizabeth Bentley, University of Arizona, "Shaking up the Grid:
Reimagining Peace as Play through #JewsAndArabsRefuseToBe
Enemies"
13-Theory

G.35 	 Re-Imagining the Student-Subject of Composition

Composition has too narrowly defined its subject as a student looking to
succeed in college writing tasks.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Ann-Marie Lopez, McMurry University
Speakers: Geoffrey Sirc, University of Minnesota
Brooke Rollins, Lehigh University
Jeff Rice, University of Kentucky
Thomas Rickert, Purdue University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 193

193

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

H Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
H.36 	 Taking Action Workshop: Framing Messages
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English

H.37 	 Taking Action Workshop: Influencing Policy
Refer to page 18 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speakers: Lori Shorr, Temple University
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College

Poster Sessions
Hilton Sky Walk, Level Two
An Argument for Empathy in the Teaching of Writing
Teaching empathy in composition in an effective means to precipitate action.
Katlyn Firestone, Michigan State University
Answering Malinowitz’s Call: Finding Out about Rhetoric & Composition’s LGBTQ Students
This poster focuses on how LGBTQ students’ sexuality and sexual identity
impact their writing and literacy practices.
Hillery Glasby, Ohio University
Branding and Promoting Writing Programs at STEM Colleges
The WPA and WC director collaborated using the Boston Consulting Group
Matrix to brand Writing Studies to STEM colleagues.
Justin Everett, University of the Sciences
Patricia Egbert, University of the Sciences

194

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 194

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Digital Counterpublics: Writing Action through Augmented Reality
Criticisms (ARCs)
This poster showcases several augmented reality projects that demonstrate how
writing with AR tools can promote social awareness and action.
Melissa Bianchi, University of Florida
Jacob Greene, University of Florida
Engaging and Empowering Diverse Learners through Visual and Digital
Tools
This poster illustrates how digital tools and multimodal pedagogies can be used
to make writing more accessible for diverse learners.
Diantha Smith, Idaho State University
Multimodal Communication in the Disciplines: A Snapshot and
Implications for Strategic Action in WAC/WID
This poster addresses the scholarly/pedagogical roles of multimodal communication across disciplines and implications for WAC/WID programs.
Robin Snead, University of North Carolina-Pembroke
New Black Boxes: Technologically Mediated Intercultural Rhetorical
Encounters
Presentation explores using Activity Theory and Actor-Network Theory for
writing and analysis in digital intercultural rhetorical situations.
Beau Pihlaja, The University of Texas at El Paso
Reading in the Studio: Taking Research-Based Action to Teach
Disciplinary Reading Practices
I will present research findings about writing studio courses as potential sites
for identifying and addressing reading problems.
Nicole MacLaughlin, University of Notre Dame
Taking Action on a Traditional Writing Strategy: Revising Peer Response
for the Millennial Generation
This poster outlines how peer response revised into group conferencing increases its effectiveness among the Millennial Generation.
Crystal Bickford, Southern New Hampshire University
Writing for Transfer across General Education
This poster details preliminary results of a longitudinal study that traces transfer in students’ writing across Gen Ed and WID classes.
Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida St. Petersburg

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 195

195

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

H.01 	 Articulation and Transfer from High School through
College

These speakers discuss the challenges and promises of transfer between
institutions, and from program to program within an institution.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Lopez, Georgia State University
Speakers: Brandie Bohney, Indinana University Purdue University
Indianapolis, "Encouraging Transfer in Basic Writers Through
Discovery"
James Pacello, Berkeley College, "Three Critical Methods for Teaching
Basic Writing to Foster Transfer of Learning"
3-Community, Civic & Public

H.02 	 #Activism: Literacies, Resistance, and Transhumanism
In this session, panelists analyze the intersections of technologies and
writing practices.

Hilton, Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University Purdue University
Indianapolis
Speakers: Jessie Casteel, University of Houston, "Publicity Without End:
the Transhuman Future of Publics and Counterpublics"
Elizabeth Losh, University of California, San Diego, "The Metadata Is the
Message: Hashtag Activism and Social Movements"
5-History

H.03 	 Revisiting, Recovering, and Revising Literacy

These speakers historicize definitions of Literacy on both national and
regional scales, particularly as focused on activism and advocacy.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Speakers: Areti Sakellaris, Northeastern University, "(Shadow) Literacy
Sponsorship in the Archive: Woody Guthrie’s Correspondence with
Alan Lomax at the Archive of American Folk Song"

196

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 196

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University, "Conceding Composition: How
FYC Helped Reorient Higher Education in the GI Bill Era"
Samantha NeCamp, University of Cincinnati, "The Newspaper as Archive:
Recovering Literacy Sponsorship in Central Appalachia"
Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "Revisiting
Assumptions in Historical Research on Literacy: A Necessary Prelude
to Activism"
6-Information Technologies

H.04 	 Multimodal Literacy in Academic Discourse: The
Question of Teaching Technology in Online Composition
Classes
We seek to answer the question: How important is it to teach technology
when implementing multimodal composition?

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Loyer, University of South Florida
Speakers: Andrew Bourelle, University of New Mexico
Maya Alapin, University of New Mexico
Tiffany Bourelle, University of New Mexico
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.05 	 Teaching through Strategic Troubling: Fostering Flexible
Learning across Writing Curriculum Contexts

We discuss how to foster transfer and flexible knowledge through a variety
of instructional approaches in the classroom and writing center.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Ryan Roderick, Carnegie Mellon
Speakers: Ana Cooke, Carnegie Mellon University, "‘Troubling’
Meta-awareness: Fostering Transfer through Strategic Reflections"
Jessica Harrell, Carnegie Mellon University, "‘Troubling’ Instructor
Feedback: Fostering Transfer Through Strategic Commenting"
Nisha Shanmugaraj, Carnegie Mellon University, "Building the Bridge:
Fostering Transfer from First-Year Writing to STEM Contexts"
Danielle Wetzel, Carnegie Mellon University, "Teaching Writing for the
Wheelhouse: Students’ Perceptions of Their Learning"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 197

197

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.06 	 Writing in the Global: Case Studies from WID and WAC
Work

We explore the articulation between the globalization of the academy, and
WAC and WID pedagogies and curricula, using three US case studies.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Andrew Lucchesi, The Graduate Center, CUNY
Speakers: Rebecca Dingo, University of Massachusetts, "Engaging the
Globe through Writing Human Rights"
Rachel Riedner, George Washington University, "Translocal Writing
Pedagogies and Literacies in Ireland and South Africa"
Jonathan Dueck, The George Washington University, "Live and
Face-to-Face: Engaging the Local through Performance in the
Writing Classroom"
Respondent: Jennifer Wingard, University of Houston
14-Writing Programs

H.07 	 The Translingual Writing Center

This session explores language diversity as a central component of writing
center work.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Terese Thonus, University of Kansas
Speakers: Nancy Alvarez, St. John’s University, "Tutoring while Latina:
Making Space for Nuestras Voces in the Writing Center"
Adam Gray, Fashion Institute of Technology, SUNY, "Translingual
(Re)Actions to Writing Situations: Peer Writing Tutors as Language
and Genre Diplomats"
Marino Fernandes, University of New Hampshire, "Now You’re
Speaking My Language: Non-Native English Speakers H.E.L.P.ing
Peer Multilingual Writers"
Tzu-Shan Chang, Wenzao Ursuline University of Languages, "What Risks
Is a Writing Center Ready to Confront? A Case Study of an Adapted
Writing Center in L2 Context"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.08 	 No Longer "Experimental": Collage as Normative
Practice, from First-Year Writing to Dissertation

Collage is not an "experimental" rhetorical choice but one that should be
taught and accepted at all levels of writing instruction.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three

198

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 198

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Chair: Tara Roeder, St John’s University
Speakers: Sharon Marshall, St. John’s University
Dan Collins, Manhattan College
Derek Owens, St. John’s University
Nathalie Virgintino, St. John’s University
Respondent: Roseanne Gatto, St John’s University
3-Community, Civic & Public

H.09 	 Neuroqueer Rhetorics, Neuroqueering Rhetoric

Caucus and SIG members discuss intersectionality, oppression, & social
justice in CCCC & build a coalition to enact change. #alliance4action

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Garrett Nichols,
Speakers: Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, "Rhetoric - Not
Otherwise Specified"
Elizabeth Grace, National Louis University, "Neuroqueer Warrant"
Elizabeth Hassler, Humboldt State University, "Online Community
Moderation Meets Universal Design?: NeuroQueer Leadership and
Facilitation Rhetorics"
Bridget Allen, Autonomous Press, The Octans Partnership,
"Neuroqueering Constructs within the Lived Experience"
Michael Monje, Autonomous Press, "Neuroqueer Vocabulary as an
Eclipse-Box: Exploring Sub- and Super-Textual Vocabularies for
Witnessing Nonverbal Thought"
6-Information Technologies

H.10 	 Theorizing Rhetoric and Language in Digital Gaming
Spaces

Using rhetorical and cultural theories, this panel investigates writing and
second language practices in digital gaming spaces.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Michael Lueker, Our Lady of the Lake University
Speakers: Jennifer England, New Mexico State University, "Using Virtual
Game Spaces to Stimulate Critical Thinking, Rhetorical, and Reflective
Writing Skills in the College Composition Classroom"
Erica Baumle, Texas Tech University, "Taking Action: Examining the
Digital as Composition Instruction"
Matthew Kelly, University of Pittburgh, "The Game of Writing, the
Writing of Games: Creating Functional Epistemologies in the
Composition Classroom"
Sonia Sharmin, University Of Georgia, "Second Language Writing: A
Rhizomatic Approach through Gaming Forums"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 199

199

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

H.11 	 Strategies of New Writing Faculty: A Discussion on the
Construction of Professional Identity
A discussion of the study "Faculty Identity Construction through
Language," funded by the 2015 CCCC Research Initiative grant.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Ryan Madan, WPI
Speakers: Brittany Salin Tilley, Nova Southeastern University
Claire Lutkewitte, Nova Southeastern University
Molly Scanlon, Nova Southeastern University
Juliette Kitchens, Nova Southeastern University
13-Theory

H.12 	 Queering Rhetorics: Rethinking Archival History and
Multimodality

This panel uses queer theory as a framework for rereading archival and
multimodal methods.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Marcela Hebbard, University of Texas-Pan American
Speakers: Benjamin Zender, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"‘Dear Lou’: Archival Orientations, Queer Performances, and the
Sexual Minorities Archives"
Gerald Jackson, University of South Carolina, "Performance and
Disidentification: Towards a Theory of Queer Modalities and
Networked Communication"
Michael Baumann, University of Louisville, "Taking Action to Avoid
Apathy: Theorizing Queer Histories"
8-Taking Action

H.13 	 Writing and (Re)Action: RTTP and Composition

Our panel will demonstrate Reacting to the Past in action and will present,
perform, and embody the pedagogy as a composition best practice.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Grbavcich, University of Wisconsin-Superior
Speakers: Rachel Bowser, Georgia Gwinnett College, Atlanta,
"(Re)Action to Darwin: Pedagogy of Problem-Solving"
Allison Belzer, Armstrong State University, "(Re)Action to Rousseau and
Cicero: Transformation and Communication across the Curriculum"
Elizabeth Howells, Armstrong State University, "(Re)Action to Socrates:
Retention, Progression, and Composition"

200

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 200

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.14 	 Getting around What Gets in the Way: Strategies for
Success in FYC

These presenters explore critical, reflective strategies to support writers in
FYC.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Speakers: Martha Schaffer, Case Western Reserve University, "A Theory
of Self-Assessment: Writing One’s Own Potential"
Jennifer Gray, College of Coastal Georgia, Brunswick, "’I’m a procrastinator because…’: Adding Student Voices to the Conversations about
Procrastination in First-Year Writing Courses"
Bret Zawilski, Appalachian State University, "Managing the Materials:
Roadblocks, Workarounds, and Dispositions in Digital Remediations"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.15 	 Bringing Tacit Writing Knowledge to Light: On The
Possibilities and Limitations of Fostering Explicit
Awareness of Disciplinary Writing Practices

In 3 case studies, we discuss the benefits of and obstacles to developing
writers’ explicit knowledge of their writing practices.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University
Speakers: Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University, "Turning Up the
Volume on Valued Argumentative Moves in Philosophy"
Andrea Olinger, University of Louisville, "When Self-report Contradicts
Practice: Understanding the Tenacity of Writers’ Beliefs"
Megan Callow, University of Washington, "The Universal vs. the
Particular: How Discipline Shapes faculty Conceptions of Writing"
11-Research

H.16 	 Digital Research

This panel provides ethical strategies and practices for researching and
coding digital writing and digital spaces.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Keith Rhodes, Hastings College
Speakers: Benjamin Miller, Graduate Center, CUNY, "Climbing the
Writing Studies Tree: Profiles of Mentorship"

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 201

201

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Naomi Silver, University of Michigan, "Coding ePortfolios for
Web-Sensibility: Putting Multimodality into Action in Qualitative
Research Analyses"
Cristy Beemer, University of New Hampshire, "Honoring the Avatar:
Acting Responsibly in Online Research Methodology"
Katelyn Burton, University of Rhode Island, "Obscurity, Obsolescence,
and Deletion, Oh My! Coping with Ephemerality in Digital Writing
Research"
7-Institutional and Professional

H.17 	 What New Second Language Writing Professionals Are
Doing to Break the Mold: Opportunities, Responsibilities,
and Challenges
Panelists explore opportunities and challenges untenured L2 writing
professionals face as administrators, teachers, and scholars.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Gail Shuck, Boise State University
Speakers: Katherine Silvester, Indiana University, "Entering the Fray:
A Multilingual Writing Coordinator’s First-Year Experience"
Lindsey Ives, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, "Inventing This
Position: SLW Administration at a Private Technical University"
Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, "Working toward a Tenured
WPA: Researching, Teaching, and Administrating"
Missy Watson, The City College of New York, CUNY, "Pushing Back at
Pushback: Ideological Constraints Facing SLW Administrators"
8-Taking Action

H.18 	 New Thoughts on Writing and First-Language Teaching

Recognizing the political character of writing and language use, what new
actions shall we take in classrooms, universities, and at large?

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Jaime Mejia, Texas State University
Speakers: Christine Farris, Indiana University
David Bleich, University of Rochester
Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago
Todd Craig, Medgar Evers College, CUNY
Keith Gilyard, Pennsylvania State University
Respondent: Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign

202

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 202

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

11-Research

H.19 	 The Genre Project: An Interim Report on Collaborations
between WPAs and Disciplinary Faculty about Genre and
the Problem of Transfer
This interactive roundtable reports on research involving collaborations
between WPAs and faculty about genre and the problem of transfer.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Speakers: Emily Bunner, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
"Reading and Genre Based Writing"
Jennifer Stockwell, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "The
Genre Project: Studying Transfer from FYC to Disciplinary Courses"
Ashley Hall, Alma College, "Activating Transfer beyond FYC"
Sarah Singer, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Identifying
Genres to Encourage Transfer"
Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, "Faculty
Expectations of Student Writing in Disciplinary Courses"
14-Writing Programs

H.20 	 Civil Discourse and the Writing Center: Code-Meshing,
Euphemizing, and Troubling Correctness

This presentation explores the possibilities and possible pitfalls of teaching and engaging in civil discourse in and for writing centers.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Lilian Mina, Miami University
Speakers: Tatiana Glushko, Jackson State University
Douglas Kern, University of Maryland, "Teaching Truths in Tutor Training"
Kathi Griffin, Jackson State University, "Negotiating"
Molly Parsons, University of Michigan, "I Wouldn’t Call It Conflict"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.21 	 WAW, Reconsidered

Avenues for expanding WAW and facilitating discussions on WAW 2.0
aspirations for action in our teaching, research, and administration.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Paige Mitchell, University of Maine
Speakers: Kelly Wavering, St. Louis Community College
Christina Grant, University of Alberta
Heather Camp, Minnesota State University, Mankato
Jan Rieman, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Rebecca Block, Daytona State University
Barbara Bird, Taylor University
CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 203

203

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.22 	 Hostile Writing: A Need to Explore These Forbidden
Spaces

This panel explores various forms of hostile writing spaces and its need to
explore those spaces.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Michele Moragne e Silva, St. Edward’s University
Speakers: Ashley Ludewig, University of Louisville, "The Military
Meets the University: Understanding Literacy Practices and Patterns of
Sponsorship among First-Year Military Students and Student Veterans"
PJ Vierra, University of Texas, El Paso, "The University and the Porn
Star"
Stephen Whitley, Collin College, "Action, Reflection, Conscientization:
Teaching Critical Thinking Skills in a Hostile Environment"
8-Taking Action

H.23 	 Roles for Writing Studies in Graduate Writing Support:
Three Sites for Action

This panel offers approaches, tools, and critical perspectives for comp/rhet
scholars to support grad student writers.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Jenae Cohn, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Heather Blain Vorhies, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Linda Macri, University of Maryland
Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.24 	 Troublesome Contexts for Writing Transfer

These panelists explore the "trouble" of transfer in multiple contexts and
other research-based responses for making transfer work.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Lisha Daniels Storey, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Standardized Testing and Students’ Prior Knowledge: Implications for
"Transfer""

204

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 204

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Mariam Kushkaki, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Unapologetically
Embrace the General Education Function: Reconciling Transfer and
Writing about Writing with First-Year Composition"
Sandie Friedman, George Washington University, "Concepts of Transfer in
Multidisciplinary First-Year Composition Programs"
7-Institutional and Professional

H.25 	 Risky Business: Neoliberalism, Corporate Culture, and
Higher Education

This panel examines the ways neoliberalism influences both the action and
inaction of writing teachers, students, and administrators.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Joan Mullin, University of North Carolina Charlotte
Speakers: Paige Hermansen, University of Arkansas
Zachary Beare, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "But Will This Get Me a
Job?"
Marcus Meade, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Do We Lead or
Follow?: Leadership and Management in Teacher Development"
Darin Jensen, Metropolitan Community College, "Neoliberalism and
the Community College"
Respondent: Shari Stenberg, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.26 	 Breathe, Move, and Write: Embodied Thinking Creates
Engaged Writers

This panel offers contemplative pedagogies to help our students connect
with all texts, the world & each other, using breath, mind, and body.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Asao Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma
Speakers: Emily Beals, California State University, Fresno, "The
Contemplative Writing ClassA Mindfulness Based Approach toward
Ontological Meaning-Making"
Donna Strickland, University of Missouri, "Composing with Relational
Mindfulness"
Jennifer Consilio, Lewis University, "Let’s Get Moving: Using Mind,
Movement, and Imagination in the Writing Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 205

205

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

H.27 	 Embrace the Funk: Rhetorically Repositioning Two-Year
College WPA Work as Social Justice
A dialogue on how rhetorically repositioning two-year college writing
program development as social justice requires embracing the funk.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Caitlin Elliott, Liberty University
Speakers: Kirsten Higgins, Green River Community College, "Speaking
the Language of Two-Year College Faculty"
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, "The Funk of WPA
Work at the Two-Year College"
Anthony Warnke, Green River Community College, "Speaking the Language of Two-Year College Faculty"
11-Research

H.28 	 Transnational Ethnography in Action: An Updated
Framework for Studying the Global Circulation of
People and Writing

This session examines methodological frameworks for transnational
literacy ethnography.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Melissa Nivens, Midwestern State University
Speakers: Eileen Lagman, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
"Literacy Remains: Transnational Ethnography and Literacy as Loss"
Kate Vieira, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Fieldwork with a
Five-Year Old: Transnational Literacy Research on Three Continents"
Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, "A Translocational Orientation to
Transnational Ethnography and Translingual Literacies"
2-Basic Writing

H.29 	 Redefining Behaviors and Quality: Course Contracts and
the Negotiation of "Good Writing" in a First-year Basic
Writing Course

Four graduate instructors will discuss how the use of course contracts in a
basic writing course can lead to increased student success.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Tony Scott, Syracuse University

206

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 206

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Speakers: Olivia Bushardt, University of Southern Mississippi, "Risk and
Improvement: Basic Writers and Course Contracts"
Allison Tharp, The University of Southern Mississippi, "Student-Teacher
Negotiation of Quality Writing with Course Contracts"
Emily Martin, University of Southern Mississippi, "Continuous Revision,
Course Contracts, and ‘Good Writing’"
Missy Wallace, University of Southern Mississippi, "Negotiating
Student-Teacher Anxiety with Course Contracts"
7-Institutional and Professional

H.30 	 GED to College Degree: Nontraditional Students &
Alternative Pathways to College

High school equivalency courses are pathways to college and important
sites of learning for graduate students preparing to teach writing.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Christine O’Keefe, University of New Hampshire
Speakers: Maria Vint, City College of New York, "The Bridge to Success:
GED Program at LaGuardia Community College"
Wynne Ferdinand, John Jay College/LaGuardia Community College,
CUNY, "GED to College Degree: Supporting Transitions to College
Writing Classrooms"
Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, City University of New York,
"Expanding the Boundaries of Composition Graduate Education to
Include Adult Learning & Adult Education"
3-Community, Civic & Public

H.31 	 "Stories That Change You": Birth Stories as Rhetorical
Action

This panel explores how the composition and sharing of stories facilitate
or suggest possible actions.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Carolyn Ostrander, Syracuse University
Speakers: Marika Seigel, Michigan Technological University
Lori De Hertogh, Washington State University
Sheri Rysdam, Utah Valley University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 207

207

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

H.32 	 Multimodal Literacies: Sonic Pedagogies and Robot
Languages
The panelists consider the relationships between sonic pedagogy,
multimodal literacies, and natural language generation software.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: Sushil Oswal, University of Washington
Speakers: Michael Harker, Georgia State University, "Don’t Just Do
Something, Sit There: Listening for the Resurgence of Expressivism
and the New Action(s) of Literacy"
Matthew Sansbury, Georgia State University, "Taking Action by
Transferring Literacy across Multimodal Contexts: ‘Visual
Languages That Interface Many Kinds of Discourses’"
11-Research

H.33 	 Conundra of Tracing Learning Transfer: Methodological
Reflections and Data Early in a Longitudinal Study

We examine methodological confounds in identifying transfer of learning
from FYC to later writing as sources of insight themselves.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Speakers: Miles Nolte, Montana State University, "Writing in the Student
Learning Experience: Student Perceptions of the Role of Writing in
Their Classes"
Kim Hoover, Montana State University, "Transferring Concepts without
Vocabulary: Nonlinguistic Metacognition"
Mark Schlenz, Montana State University, "Heisenberg and the Learning
Transfer Interview"
Doug Downs, Montana State University, "Do We Know *Anything*?
On Designing Fault-Probable Methods"

208

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 208

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

H.34 	 Basic Writing at the Edges of Feasibility: A CrossInstitutional Comparison of Shifting Demographics,
Assessment as Praxis, and
Curricular Reform

Inspired by calls to move basic writing to the "leading edge," we explore
the potential that arises when BW-as-usual is no longer feasible.

GRB Room 351F, Level Three
Chair: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Andrew Anastasia, Frostburg State University, "Frayed Edges:
Negotiating the Affective Dimensions of Basic Writing Program
Assessment and Reform"
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, "From Edge to Center:
Re-Framing a Preparation-for-College-Writing Course"
William DeGenaro, The University of Michigan Dearborn, "What Can
Basic Writing Feasibly Do?"
Respondent: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
8-Taking Action

H.35 	 Writing as Making; Making as Writing

This panel will explore what’s possible in our research and practice when
we position writing as making, and making as writing, and the ways that it
can support taking action and countering systemic inequities as well as the
questions and challenges raised.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Elyse Eidman-Aadahl, National Writing Project
Speakers: Mia Zamora, Kean University Writing Project
Peter Kittle, Northern California Writing Project
Jennifer Beradino, Museum of Fine Arts
Lil Brannon, University of North Carolina, Charlotte

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 209

209

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
I.36 	

Taking Action Workshop: Naming and Narrowing
Refer to page 16 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Glenda Eoyang, HSD Institute

I.37 	

Taking Action Workshop: Making Action Plans
Refer to page 19 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University

I.01 	

3-Community, Civic & Public

The Company We Keep: Taking Action with Partners in
the Study of Religion and Rhetoric

This panel examines resources within religious rhetorics for taking institutional and pedagogical action.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University
Speakers: TJ Geiger, Lamar University, "‘Speaking Christian’: Writing
Teachers’ Religious Vocabularies"
Heather Thomson-Bunn, Pepperdine University, "‘He Who Keeps Them
Awake’: A Native American Rhetor Addresses the Composition
Classroom"
Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, "Spiritual Climate Change at
a Land Grant University: Marcus Borg’s Rhetorical Legacy"
Respondent: Beth Daniell, Kennesaw State University

I.02 	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Between the Lines: Exploring Difference in Students’
Response to Feedback

This session reports on the results of two research projects that explore
how students understand and respond to feedback on their writing.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
210

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 210

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Chair: Lindee Owens, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Bridget Wagner, DePaul University
Lauri Dietz, DePaul University, "What Do We Talk about When We Talk
about Writing: Writing Fellows"
Darsie Bowden, DePaul University, "Responding to Writing: Student
Perspective"
Amanda Gaddam, DePaul University, "Perceptions and Reality of
Students’ Revisions"
Respondent: Nancy Sommers, Harvard University

I.03 	

11-Research

By the Tutors, For the Tutors: Undergraduate Research in
the Writing Center
This panel argues for a writing center in which the research agenda is
carried forward by the primary stakeholders: the tutors themselves.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware
Speakers: Rachael Zeleny, Alvernia University, "Creating a (Tiny) Army:
Undergraduate Research as an Agent of Institutional Change"
Michael McCamley, University of Delaware, "To Be Real: Harnessing the
Benefits of Undergraduate Research in Tutor Training"
Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware, "Strange Angels and Stranger
Angles: Genre Transformation in Undergraduate Research"

I.04 	

8-Taking Action

Resocializing Writing Assessment: Articulating Social
Justice Perspectives in Writing Assessment Practice

We frame social justice theory for the purposes of writing assessment and
describe three models of assessment as social action.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Asao Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma
Speakers: Matthew Gomes, Michigan State University, "Decolonizing
Methodologies for Writing Program Assessment"
Mya Poe, Northeastern University, "Articulating the Possibilities of Social
Justice Theory"
Irvin Peckham, Drexel Univiersity, "Redistributing Power in Writing
Assessment"
David Green, Howard University, "Using Writing Assessment at HBCUs
to Address Racial Injury"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 211

211

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.05 	

3-Community, Civic & Public

Renegotiating the Public Imagination of American War:
Masculinist Tropes of Veterans, War, and Trauma
This panel reconfigures masculinist tropes about military service in
veterans’ writing, military rhetorics, and the composition classroom.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Liam Corley, U.S. Naval Academy
Speakers: Mariana Grohowski, Massachusetts Maritime Academy, "The
Trope of the Female Veteran in Military Women’s War Writing"
Lydia Wilkes, Idaho State University, "Deliberating across Difference in
the Composition Classroom"
April Cobos, Old Dominion University, "The Trope of the Warrior:
Negotiating Warrior Ethos as a Female in a Combat Related Military
Community"

I.06 	

8-Taking Action

Ready, Set . . . Action? Stories as a Means of Going
Public

Speakers on this panel offer an appreciative critique of narrative as
composition’s primary means of going public amidst reform.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Donald Pardlow, Claflin University
Speakers: Merrilyne Lundahl, University of Nevada, Reno
Katrina Miller, University of Nevada, Reno
Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno

I.07 	

13-Theory

Acting by Design: Multimodal Activism on the Streets,
in the Classroom, and through the Writing Center

This panel examines multimodality’s power as an agent of activism across
three sites: the streets, the classroom, and the writing center.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University
Speakers: Katherine Bridgman, Texas A&M University-San Antonio,
"In the Heart of Multimodal Activism: Crafting a Visible Community
of Writers through the Writing Center"
Kristie Fleckenstein, Florida State University, "Synaesthetic Persuasion:
Multimodal Activism as a Rhetoric of the Senses"
Scott Gage, Colorado State University-Pueblo, "A Pedagogy of
Multimodal Activism: Resisting the Multimodal Message in the
Classroom"

212

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 212

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.08 	

10-Professional and Technical Writing

Global Contexts of Scientific Literacies

Panelists will bring diverse global contexts (China and Mexico) for
considering scientific literacies in the pedagogy and practice of technical
communication.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Joanna Paull, Lakeland Community College
Speakers: Laura Vazquez, Benémerita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla,
"Scientific Disciplines and Literacy: Communication in Second
Language Challenge of Mexican Doctoral tudents"
Suresh Canagarajah, Pennsylvania State University, "Multimodal
Resources of Multilingual Professionals in STEM Writing: An
Activity-based Orientation"
Xiaoli Li, University of Dayton, "Technical Translation as Bridge Course
for Technical Communication in ESL Contexts: A Case Study of
Technical Translation in China"
Baotong Gu, Georgia State University, "East Meets West on Flat Design:
The Convergence and Divergence of Chinese and American Rhetorical
Principles"
Meng Yu, Georgia State University, "East Meets West on Flat Design:
The Convergence and Divergence of Chinese and American Rhetorical
Principles"
Huiling Ding, North Carolina State University, "Technical Translation as
Bridge Course for Technical Communication in ESL Contexts: A Case
Study of Technical Translation in China"

I.09 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Do the Right Thing: Ethics as Classroom Action

This panel offers pedagogical strategies for supporting ethical awareness
in the writing classroom.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Bronwyn T. Williams, University of Louisville
Speakers: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, South Bend,
"Enactments of Virtue"
Paula Mathieu, "Mindful Inquiries: Stillness as Ethical Social Action"
Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, "Language Ethics: Revitalizing Style
in the Writing Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 213

213

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.10 	

10-Professional and Technical Writing

Collaborative Teaching and Integration—Where Writing
Positions Itself between STEM Education and
Professional Accreditation

Problem-based learning for engineering students in an activity-based,
collaborative environment with integrated assignments for project work.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Les Perelman, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Speakers: Tatiana Teslenko, The University of British Columbia
Hongxing Qi, The University of British Columbia
Michael Schoen, The University of British Columbia

I.11 	

13-Theory

Re-Reading Appalachia: Literacy, Place, and Cultural
Resistance

This panel argues that theories of Appalachian literacies must account for
the specific regional history and uses of the term "literacy."

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota
Speakers: Joshua Iddings, Virginia Military Institute, "Re-reading
Appalachian Literacy: A Functional Linguistics Approach"
Emma Howes, Coastal Carolina University, "Libraries and Living Rooms:
An Exploration of Where Archives and Communities Meet"
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University Fort
Wayne, "Re-shaping Literacy Studies: A Theory of—and for—
Appalachia"

I.12 	

13-Theory

Decolonizing Writing, Writing as Decolonization

Challenging and unsettling Eurocentric approaches through indigenous
rhetorics and decolonial activism.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Laurie Pinkert, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Gail MacKay, University of Saskatchewan
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University
Chelsea Murdock, University of Kansas

214

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 214

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.13 	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Disability Studies and Transformative Access

Transforming access in graduate seminars, writing processes, and
classroom technologies.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Patricia Poblete, Iowa State University
Speakers: Carly West, University of Missouri-St. Louis, "Transforming
Technology"
Lauren Terbrock, University of Missouri-St. Louis, "Transforming
Process"
Lauren Obermark, University of Missouri-St. Louis, "Transforming
Graduate Education"

I.14 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Transfer: Strategies for Action, Strategies for Trouble?

These panelists explore the often trouble work of threshold concepts in
order to rethink current notions of transfer.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Gardner Pottorff, University of Central Missouri
Speakers: David Gugin, University of Guam, "Strategic Action: A New
Look at Transfer"
Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College Chicago, "Threshold to What?
Teaching Transient Knowledge about Writing"
Hilary Sarat-St. Peter, Columbia College Chicago, "Threshold to What?
Teaching Transient Knowledge about Writing"
Ruth Mirtz, Kansas Wesleyan University, "Troublesome or Just Trouble?:
Mapping Composition Threshold Concepts and the ACRL Information
Literacy Framework"

I.15 	

13-Theory

Queering Composition: Pedagogy for Activism, Identity,
and Change
This panel gives examples of writing pedagogies for change.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Amanda Pratt, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Rachael Ryerson, Ohio University, "Queer(i)ed Composition:
Taking Action against the Violence of (Hetero)Normativity"
Janine Butler, East Carolina University, "Composing through a Different
Lens: Write Your Identity in the ______"
Matthew Boedy, University of North Georgia, "Writing as Renaming:
How to Move the Conversation via Isocrates"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 215

215

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.16 	

8-Taking Action

Challenges of Large-Scale Writing Assessment:
Portfolios, Through-Course Assessments, and
Other Emerging Innovations

This roundtable presents perspectives on developing writing assessments
from psychometricians, WPAs and first-year composition instructors.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Brandon Abdon, College Board
Speakers: Michael Neal, Florida State University
Cassandra Love, College Board
Marisa Klages, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY
Carl Whithaus, University of California, Davis
Sheila Carter-Tod, Virginia Tech
Bob Broad, Illinois State University
Patrick Clauss, University of Notre Dame

I.17 	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Redefining Narrative Writing as a Strategy for Action

Demonstrates the benefits of using narrative in new ways to introduce
students to academic writing tasks and to incorporate digital genres.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Janet Auten, American University
Speakers: Karen Shaup, Georgetown University
Janet Auten, American University
Alison Klein, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth

I.18 	

8-Taking Action

Partnering with the Status Quo: Theories, Histories, and
Cases of Problematic Partnerships for Action-Oriented
Practitioners
This panel investigates problematic partnerships, or relationships with
organizations whose interests may not align clearly with our own.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Lan Wang, West Virginia State University
Speakers: Sarah R. Robbins, Texas Christian University, "Composing
Collaborations: Setting Problematic Partnerships in Historical Context"

216

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 216

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Jeff Grabill, Michigan State University, "From the Lab to the World: The
Problematic Partnerships of Engagement"
Todd DeStigter, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Unsettling Arguments:
Preparing Writing Teachers in the Age of School Reform"
Tyler Branson, University of California Santa Barbara, "Situating
Problematic Partnerships in the Field of Composition"

I.19 	

14-Writing Programs

Localized Sites of Assessment, Action, and
Transformation

This session explores curriculum and assessment in local contexts.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Brandon Katzir, Louisiana State University
Speakers: Logan Bearden, Florida State University, "A Model for
Multimodal Curricular Transformation"
Natalie Szymanski, University of Hawaii-West O’ahu, "‘Auamo Kuleana:
Calling Learning Community Students to Writerly Action through
Culturally Relevant Practices"
David Giovagnoli, Illinois State University, "What If They Get the Wrong
Values?: Localism and Writing Assessment"

I.20 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Tasting the Golden Waters: Exploring Different Writing
Rhetorics
The panel looks at different ways to view and improve writing.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Laura Nissley, Lindsey Wilson College, "A WAC Call to Action:
Using Writing to Increase Learning in Human Physiology Courses"
Speakers: Erin Wais-Hennen, Lindsey Wilson College, "A WAC Call
to Action: Using Writing to Increase Learning in Human Physiology
Courses"
Sarah Summers, Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, "Reflection as
Action: Reflective Writing in the STEM Classroom"
Amelia Herb, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "(En)acting the
Discipline: Decoding the Visual Rhetoric of Physics"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 217

217

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.21 	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Instructor Feedback as an Interactive Process:
Using Qualitative Data to Develop Effective Feedback
Strategies

Presents results of qualitative studies exploring the function of feedback in
face-to-face and online settings at two public universities.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana
Speakers: Laura Gabrion, Oakland University, "Navigating New
Discourses: Raising Students’ Self-Efficacy through Interactive
Feedback Practices"
Justine Neiderhiser, Ohio Northern University, "Discourses of
(Dis)Engagement: Interpreting Students’ Responses to Instructor
Feedback to Promote Engagement in the Writing Process"
Jennifer Coon, Oakland University, "Building Relationships and Writers:
Conferencing with F2F and Online Students"

I.22 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Initiatives for Non-Traditional Students

Pedagogical initiatives for helping students to be engaged with and
through writing practices beyond classrooms.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Kristina Reardon, College of the Holy Cross
Speakers: Joan Wedes, University of Houston-Downtown, "Making
Writing Relevant and Essential to First-year, Career-track Students"
Scott Lasley, University of New Hampshire, "In Different Time Zones:
Public Discourse and Third-Shift Workers in the FYC Classroom"
Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of New Mexico, "Transcultural
Linguistic Migration: Migrant Activist Genres as a Mode of Rhetorical
Transfer"

I.24 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L2 Writing Practices

Presentations that explore factors related to prior genre knowledge and
genre practices mainly related to non-traditional students.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Jan Rieman, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Speakers: Saveena Veeramoothoo, University of Maine, "International
Students in the Translingual ClassTransfer from High School to FYC
to WID"

218

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 218

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Amanda Brooks, Florida State University, "The Effect of Prior Genre
Knowledge on Students’ Self-Efficacy"
Soohyon Ji, Purdue University, "Placement of L2 Writers: A Judgment
Call?"
Xinqiang Li, Michigan State University, "Texts We Live By–One More
Dimension of Chinese Writing Culture"

I.25 	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Identifying and Eliciting Students’ Metacognitive
Development

A report on our research on evidence of metacognition in ePortfolios with
structured interaction for participants to find applications.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Mary Rist, St. Edward’s University
Speakers: Sarah Brown, DePaul University, "Coding ‘Assignments’
versus Coding ‘Connective Tissue’"
Michelle Navarre Cleary, DePaul University, "Guiding Faculty toward
Developing Metacognition"
Julie Bokser, DePaul University, "Metacognitive Markers across
ePortfolios: Results of Research with the Inter/national Coalition on
ePortfolio Research (INCEPR)"
Kathryn Wozniak, DePaul University, "Coding as a Method for Identifying
Metacognitive Markers in Student Work"

I.26 	

8-Taking Action

Acting as If: The De-centered Writing Program as a
Framework for Success in Community College Writing
Programs

This panel demonstrates how a de-centered community college writing
program generates student as well as faculty agency and autonomy.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Rochelle (Shelley) Rodrigo, University of Arizona
Speakers: Lori Ungemah, Guttman Community College, CUNY
Nate Michelson, Guttman Community College
Jane E Hindman, Guttman Community College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 219

219

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.27 	

13-Theory

Negotiating Interactions around Difference: Identity
and Responsibility in Communities, Workplaces, and
Classrooms

What communicative responsibilities do people claim? How are power
and agency distributed in cross-racial and cross-disability interactions?

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University
Speakers: Vershawn Young, University of Waterloo, "I Am Not Freddie
Gray, but I Want Justice: Access, Equity, and the Racial Responsibility
of Black Men and Police Officers"
Annika Konrad, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Having to ‘Sell Sell
Sell’: Locating Responsibility in the Everyday Rhetorical Labor of
Disability"
Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware, "Cultivating Disability
	 Awareness: The Responsibilities of Disabled Faculty Members at Work"
Respondent: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University

I.28 	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Academic Integrity and the International Student:
Supporting Multilingual Writers

The recent surge in international enrollment has challenged writing
programs to develop new forms of support for multilingual writers.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Jorge Gomez, El Paso Community College
Speakers: Jonathan Hunt, University of San Francisco, "Ghostwriting and
the Credibility of Students and Writing Programs"
Julie Sullivan, University of San Francisco, "Ghostwriting Human Rights
and the First-Year Experience"
Brij Lunine, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Making the Analytical
Personal by Design"
Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis, "Preventing Plagiarism:
How WAC Programs Can Help"

I.29 	

11-Research

Research with/from/about Underrepresented
Communities

This panel presents research, composing, and pedagogical practices for
studying and recovering difference as it pertains to race, women, STEM,
and the Deaf community.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three

220

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 220

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Chair: Kenneth Ronkowitz, New Jersey Institute of Technology
Speakers: Edward Hahn, University of Minnesota, "Reviewing Writing,
Rethinking Race: A Tale of Practice and Persuasion"
Gretchen Cobb, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Corpus Linguistics
Methodology: Analyzing the Sociolinguistic Practices of Deaf Writers"
Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, "Increasing Success among
Underrepresented Students with a ‘Writing to Learn’ Approach in
STEM Gateway Courses"
Henrietta Shirk, Montana Tech of The University of Montana, "The
Invisible Woman in the Archives: New Perspectives on Historical
Research Methods"

I.30 	

7-Institutional and Professional

WPAs in Action: Navigating Institutional Infrastructures,
Cultivating Relevant Textual Practices
Panelists explore the affordances and constraints of creating, sustaining,
and archiving FYW genres of teaching and learning.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Speakers: Allison Kranek, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
"In a Writing Habit of Mind: College Mission Statements and the WPA
Framework for Success"
Ellery Sills, Purdue University, "Disciplining the Digital: The CWPA
Outcomes Statement as Infrastructure for Emerging Genres"
Amanda Girard, Michigan Technological University, "Archival Action:
Best Practices for Writing Program Administrator’s Digital Archives"

I.31 	

6-Information Technologies

From Posturing to Positioning: Encouraging Rhetorical
Sophistication through Multimodal Pedagogies
Presenters illustrate multi-modal writing for social action in first-year
composition, service-learning, capstones, and the public sphere.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Lillian Bridwell-Bowles, Louisiana State University
Speakers: Christina Armistead, Louisiana State University, "Where
the Edges Meet: Cultural Clashes in Multi-Modal Writing for
Service-Learning"
Lindsay Head, Louisiana State University, ""Counterpublic" Writing for
Grown-ups: WikiLeaks as a Case Study for Digital Action"
Lillian Bridwell-Bowles, Louisiana State University, "Citizenship in a
Digital Future: Multimodal Writing in a Rhetoric, Writing, & Culture
Capstone"
Christine Jeansonne, Louisiana State University, "First-Year Facebook:
Demonstrations in Taking Action versus Digital Posturing"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 221

221

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.32 	

7-Institutional and Professional

Feminist Action for Women Writing Program
Administrators: Movements for Change in the Academy
A roundtable taking up feminist activism through issues women writing
program administrators face in a dynamic yet still patriarchal academy.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University
Speakers: Melissa Nicolas, Drew University
Anna Sicari, St. John’s University
Roxanne Mountford, University of Oklahoma
Elizabeth Boquet, Fairfield University
Respondents: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma
Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University

I.33 	

7-Institutional and Professional

Demystifying the Job Market: Taking Action toward
Transparency through Data and Narrative

Data-driven reports & narrative experiences depict the current comp/rhet
job market, giving job seekers & their advisors insights/guidance.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Lynn Rudloff, St. Edward’s University
Speakers: Carrie Leverenz, Texas Christian University, "Finding a Fit: An
Assessment of Job Seekers’ Experiences of the Job Market in Rhetoric
and Composition"
Andrea Rosso Efthymiou, Hofstra University, "The Sustainable WPA:
A Contingent Dissertator becomes a Tenure-track Faculty Member"
Caroline Dadas, Montclair State University, "Interview Practices as
Accessibility"
Christopher Friend, University of Central Florida, "From Mickey Mouse
to Cigar City: What Flexibility, Interdisciplinarity, and a Two-Hour
Drive Can Do for Employability"
Amanda Licastro, The Graduate Center, CUNY
Respondent: Jim Ridolfo, University of Kentucky

222

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 222

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.34 	

7-Institutional and Professional

Fostering Academic Collaborations: Co-Mentoring as
Strategic Action in Rhetoric and Composition

We investigate aspects of co-mentoring to ask how the practice can support the pedagogical values and professional careers of R/C scholars.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Risa P. Gorelick, Research Network Forum
Speakers: Janice Walker, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, "Re-seeing the ‘Boss
Compositionist’ through a Compound Lens of Co-mentoring"
Jennifer Stewart, Indiana Purdue University Fort Wayne, "Co-Mentoring
via Intentional Interaction: Or How I Learned to Stop Feeling Isolated
and Use Social Media for More Than Quizzes"
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, "Taking Action by Paying It
Forward: As We Were Mentored, so Shall We Co-mentor"
11-Research

I.35 	 Applying for a CCCC Research Grant: A Mentoring
Session

Experienced researchers and members of the CCCC Research Committee will be available to talk with those interested in drafting proposals for
CCCC research awards.

Hilton Room 344A, Level Three
Speakers: Margaret Price, The Ohio State University
Karen Lunsford, University of California-Santa Barbara
Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III
Ben McCorkle, The Ohio State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 223

223

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J Sessions: 2:00–3:15 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
J.35 	 Taking Action Workshop: Framing Messages
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speaker: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English,
Washington, DC

J.36 	 Taking Action Workshop: Building Alliances
Refer to page 17 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Sarah Scanlon, Arkansas State Director for Bernie 2016

Poster Sessions
Hilton Sky Walk, Level Two
A History of Hotdogs: Critical Eating in an Age of Foodieism
Interrogating the history & rhetoric of foods via the modern hotdog; an ancient
Roman sausage recipe grants insight into a lost discourse.
Samuel Fuller, Clemson University
Becoming Style Chameleons: How Well Do Students Give Teachers "What
They Want"?
This poster investigates the ability of students to adjust their writing styles to
local rhetorical situations, i.e., teachers.
William FitzGerald, Rutgers University-Camden
Brynn Kairis, Rutgers University-Camden
Coadyuvante as Program Development Paradigm: Using Activist Strategies
in WAC/WID Faculty Development
The activist strategy of coadyuvante is remediated as administrative and pedagogical heuristics aiding WAC/WID faculty development efforts.
Tricia Serviss, Santa Clara University

224

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 224

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

English Language Teacher Education in Libya: Affordances and Constraints
The presenter discusses a case study that explored a Libyan English language
teacher education program’s affordances and constraints.
Entisar Elsherif, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
FYC Student Perceptions of Writing and Learning Disabilities
Data compiled over two years on the perception of writing abilities of students
with learning disabilities in FYC.
Peter Elliott, Anderson University
Identifying and Demonstrating Genre Knowledge: A Preliminary
Assessment Heuristic in FYC Classrooms
Assessment created for FYC focused on genre theory that enabled instructors
and students to identify specific goals and purpose for course.
Laurenn Jarema, Illinois State University
Kayla Bruce, Arizona State University
Posted: Too Teaching Intensive!
A recent trend in hiring temporary "teaching-intensive" faculty ignores professional guidelines to ensure quality writing instruction.
Frost McLaughlin, Lord Fairfax Community College
Reframing Rhetoric in the Workplace: A Socio-Epistemic Pedagogical
Approach for Professional Writing
A professional writing curriculum centered on socio-epistemic rhetoric, aiming
to improve rhetorical knowledge transfer into work settings.
Holly Fulton, Arizona State University/Mesa Community College
Strategic Writing Support in Courses through Collaboration
A poster on strategies to tailor writing sessions to contextualize the writing process for university students in courses.
Nancy C. Johnston, University of Toronto

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 225

225

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

11-Research

J.01 	 Methods, Models, and Means of Undergraduate
Research in Rhetoric and Composition: A Roundtable
Discussion

Undergraduates can be-and are-researchers in rhet/comp. This roundtable
addresses the hows and whys of UG research pedagogy in our field.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Alissa Russell, George Mason University
Speakers: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania, "The
Writing Center as Lab for Authentic Undergraduate Research"
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, CUNY, "Providing "Wiggle Room":
How Designing Inquiry-Based Assignments Encourages Undergraduate
Research"
Heather Adams, University of Alaska Anchorage, "Thinking Like a
Researcher: Using Key Terms to Cultivate Undergraduate Research
Dispositions"
Jack Selzer, Penn State University, "How First-Year Students Research
the Rhetoric of the Civil Rights Movement"
J.R. Collins, University of Alaska Anchorage, "Including the Undergraduate Perspective in Pedagogy: A Community Engaged Model
for Undergraduate and Faculty Collaborative Research"
5-History

J.02 	 Uncovering and Recovering Actors in Rhetorical
Instruction

These presentations uncover four important figures in writing studies and
rhetorical education from the 19th and 20th centuries.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University
Speakers: Lindy Briggette, University of Rhode Island, Providence,
"Rhythm, Repetition, and Response as Strategic Action: Evidence of
Embodied Rhetoric in Julia Child’s Production of Multimodal Texts"
Anita August, Sacred Heart University, "She the People! Frances E.
Willard’s ‘Do Everything Policy’ as Logos Politikos at the 1893
World’s Columbian Exposition"
Henrietta Wood, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "Confronting
Injustice: Mary McLeod Bethune and the "Persistent Protest" for
African American Rights, 1936-1942"
John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University, "A Writer Gets Political: What
Donald Murray’s 1954 Pulitzer Prize-Winning Editorials Can Teach Us
about "Rhetoric and Ideology in the Writing Class""

226

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 226

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

J.03 	 Digital Activism toward Social Justice

This panel negotiates rhetorical resistance and resilience in the contexts of
contemporary digital social justice movements.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Carol Rutz, Carleton College
Speakers: Melissa Larabee, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
"Best Unfriends: Ferguson, Facebook, and the Perils of Knowing Thy
Enemy"
LauraAnne Carroll-Adler, University of Southern California, "The
Digital Activists Are Coming: Social Media and the Rhetoric of
Public Discourse after Ferguson"
Antonio Byrd, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "The Color-Line and
Computational Literacy"
Leigh Gruwell, Auburn University, "Feminist Rhetorical Resilience:
Taking Action against Gendered Hate Online"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

J.04 	 Flipped Professional Development for Hybrid Courses:
Preparing Graduate Student Instructors to Teach in a
Contemporary First-Year Writing Program

The session discusses implementation and assessment of a flipped
instructor development initiative for a large first-year writing program.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Emmett Ryan, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: RayChel Lowrance, Texas Tech University, "Meeting Instructors
Face-to-Face"
Monica Norris, Texas Tech University, "Flipping the Development Program"
Susan Lang, Texas Tech University, "Setting the Context for Contemporary
Professional Development Programs"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

J.05 	 The Value of Presence: Strategic Uses of Contemplative
Practices in the Writing Classroom
The panel explores how to address broad challenges by working with
contemplative practices for writing process and pedagogy.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas Permian Basin
Speakers: John Guelcher, "Moving Meditation, Flow, and the Writing
Process in the Composition Classroom"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 227

227

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Eberly Barnes, University of California San Diego, "Adventures in
Mindfulness at the University: Visions and Realities for Contemplative
Practices in TA Training and Writing Programs"
Leah Anderst, Queensborough Community College, "Meditation, Mindfulness, Metacognition, and High-Stakes Testing in the Basic Writing
Classroom"
Respondent: Barry Kroll, Lehigh University

J.06 	 Assembling Composition

Panel will examine the role of assemblage in three settings: postcard
production, indigenous gathering practices, and the FYC classroom.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Andrea Scott, Pitzer College, Claremont
Speakers: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University, "’Greetings from
Asbury Park’: The Persistent Legacy of the Large Letter Postcard"
Kristin Arola, Washington State University, "Assemble with Care: An
Indigenous Approach to Assemblage"
Travis Maynard, Florida State University, "Copy, Combine, Transform:
Assemblage in First-Year Composition"
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University
8-Taking Action

J.07 	 Translation as Action: Finding the Words for
Cross-Language Community Action

After sharing case studies in cross-language settings, we invite audience
members to design a heuristic for deploying translation as action.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Karen Wink, U.S. Coast Guard Academy
Speakers: Jennifer Clifton, University of Texas at El Paso, "Low-Riders
in Action: Creating a Borderland Aesthetic, Invoking a Gift Economy
through Tecno-Sovereignty"
Elizabeth Kimball, Drew University, "Confianza in Action: Finding New
Terms for Assessment"
Elenore Long, Arizona State University, "Makhada in Action: Cultivating
Rhetoricity among Strangers Otherwise Divided by Difference"

228

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 228

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

9-Language

J.08 	 Transnational Composition: (Geo)Political Considerations
for Writing Research, Publication, and Pedagogy
Roundtable bringing together writing teacher-researchers working and
studying across a range of geographic and institutional locations.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Brice Nordquist, Syracuse University
Speakers: Julia Kiernan, Michigan State University
Chenchen Huang, Pennsylvania State University
Lisa Arnold, North Dakota State University
Natalia Smirnova, Nat’l Research Univ. Higher School of Econ
Vivette Milson-Whyte, The University of the West Indies, Mona
Respondents: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville
8-Taking Action

J.09 	 Four Strategies for Writing In/Action

Drawing from four strategies for in/action, this panel explores the
pedagogical possibilities of enacting receptive writing practices.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Sonia Sharmin, University Of Georgia
Speakers: Christian Smith, Coastal Carolina University
Paul Cook, Indiana University Kokomo
Lisa Bailey, University of South Carolina
Lindsay McManus, University of South Carolina
7-Institutional and Professional

J.10 	 Independent Writing Departments and Programs:
The Dynamics of Independence

Presenters engage with the changing nature of independence in the context
of broad and ongoing economic and structural changes in higher ed.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Leslie Werden, Morningside College
Speakers: Dara Regaignon, New York University, "Collaborative Writing
Program (Re)Design"
Brian McNely, University of Kentucky, "When Hanging Your Shingle
Isn’t Enough: Recruitment in Independent Writing Programs"
Heidi McKee, Miami University, "One Major? No, Thank You: Navigating
an Independent Writing Degree in an English Department"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 229

229

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

13-Theory

J.11 	 Practices of Rhetorical Invention

This panel frames practices and strategies for rhetorical invention to
discuss the role of repetition and unoriginality.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University
Speakers: Bradfield Dittrich, University of New Hampshire, "Those Who
said Our Things Before Us: The Role of Unoriginality in Invention"
Erika Strandjord, Concordia College, "Repetition as the Embodiment of
Memory in Craft Rhetorics"
Kendra Fullwood, College of the Holy Cross, "Rhetorical Invention as
Cultural Invention"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

J.12 	 Practicing Writing as Social Act: Writing Group Pedagogy
in the Context of the Writing Center
This panel explores writing group pedagogy within writing centers as a
means to disrupt authority and promote writing as social act.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Michelle Miley, Montana State University
Speakers: Jess Carroll, Montana State University, "Peer Tutor Writing
Group"
Michelle Miley, Montana State University, "Writing Studio"
Zack Bean, Montana State University, "Creative Writing Workshop"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

J.13 	 Challenges and Opportunities of Technological
Environments

This panel analyses different scenarios for teaching FYC through
digital-technology environments.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Emily Standridge, University of Texas Tyler
Speakers: Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University, "Assessing FYC
Course Redesigns under Pressure"
Sarah Prasad, AANAPISI Project, San Jose State University, "Making the
Case for Hybrid First-Year Composition in a SJSU Post-MOOC World:
One Lecturer’s Journey"

230

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 230

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

10-Professional and Technical Writing

J.14 	 Second Generation ABET: Bridging the Gap between
Engineering Communication Curricula and Professional
Identities
This panel offers qualitative studies of the links between engineering
communication curricula and the work and public lives of engineers.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Mya Poe, Northeastern University
Speakers: Jennifer Mallette, Boise State University
Elane Wisniewski, University of Michigan
11-Research

J.15 	 Translating Data into Action: Coordinating University and
Program-Specific Writing Assessment

This panel will explore how WPAs and assessment coordinators can make
standardized survey data relevant to local writing programs.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Kristiane Stapleton, University of Houston
Speakers: Darci Thoune, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse
Bryan Kopp, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse
Patrick Barlow, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse
14-Writing Programs

J.16 	 If You Build It, Will They Come? Extending the Writing
Center Inside and Outside Our Walls

This panel focuses on how writing centers can increase inclusivity and
support Native American students’ rhetorical sovereignty.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Heather Bruce, University of Montana
Speakers: Heather Flute, North Dakota State University
Kelly Sassi, North Dakota State University
Phillip Bode, North Dakota State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 231

231

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

J.17 	 Power, Politics, and Accreditation: Effecting Culture
Change with Writing-Focused QEPs

How writing faculty can take action, overcome resistance, and instigate
change with a writing-focused Quality Enhancement Plan.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Kendra Andrews, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, "Elbowing
Your Way to the Head Table: Taking Action when a QEP Ignores the
Writing Center"
Meghan Dykema, Florida State University, "Accountability, Assessment,
Advocacy: Writing-Focused QEPs as Strategies for Action"
Frances Crawford, University of Mary Hardin-Baylor, "Taking Your
QEP-Sweet Time: For Every Action..."
Toby Coley, University of Mary Hardin-Baylor, "Taking Your QEP-Sweet
Time: For Every Action..."
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

J.18 	 Understanding Our Habits of Mind: Clarifying
Disciplinarity, Assessment, and Transfer

This panel presents a discussion about how the field and unique institutions
can better discuss terms and requirements for transfer and assessment.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Sarah King, University of Toronto Scarborough
Speakers: Sarah King, University of Toronto Scarborough, "Could Habits
be a Threshold Concept-or Practice-for Writing Pedagogy?"
Laura Tabor, Earlham College, "Teaching for Rhetorical and Civic
Transfer: Using Iterative Definition Building to Promote Key-Terms
Transfer"
Denise Krane, Santa Clara University, "Rubrics and Transfer: Do Product
Rubrics Interfere with the Transfer of Learning, and Are Process
Rubrics a Solution?"
14-Writing Programs

J.19 	 WPA Work as Strategic Action

This panel seeks to disrupt the idea that WPA work is strictly bureaucratic:
instead explores contextualized means of action.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Kathleen Cassity, Hawaii Pacific University
Speakers: Amy Nichols, University of Louisville, "The WPA Course:
Pursuing Miller’s Intellectual Bureaucrat"

232

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 232

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Nathaniel Street, University of South Carolina, "Affirming Connectivity:
Towards a New Mode of WPA Identity Production"
Amy Heckathorn, California State University, Sacramento, "Know when
to Fold ‘Em: When Walking Away Is the Only Action Left"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

J.20 	 Enacting New Theories of Revision

Theories of rhetoric, backward transfer, and the gestalt provide new
insight into the integrative nature of revision as a threshold concept.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Paul Butler, University of Houston
Speakers: Bruce Ballenger, Boise State University, "The Gestalt of
Revision"
Kelly Myers, Boise State University, "Metanoic Revision: Turning toward
Emotion in Writing and Revision"
Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, "Mapping a Conceptual
Topography of Revision as a Process of Backward Transfer"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

J.21 	 Albert E. Krahn Debates Peter Elbow at the 2016 CCCC
Convention
Punctuate with voice or eye? Two speakers will debate-ceding the
remaining time to the "third speaker," the audience, for discussion.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Albert Krahn, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
8-Taking Action

J.22 	 Mobilizing Tenure-Track Faculty for Adjunct Equity

We describe successful adjunct-equity activism in multiple contexts and
offer recommendations for TT/T faculty to use in their own efforts.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Mark Sursavage, University of Houston
Speakers: Seth Kahn, West Chester University
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University
Tonya Ritola, University of California, Santa Cruz
Respondent: Mitzi Jones, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 233

233

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

J.23 	 Martin, Ministers, and Music: Listening to African
American Rhetorics in the Writing Classroom

These writers revisit classic African American texts and contexts to
explore new ideas about engaging writers.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Terese Thonus, University of Kansas
Speakers: Brittney Boykins, Tallahassee Community College, "Venacular
(Community) Workshop: Black Church Literacy Practices Working in
the Composition Classroom"
Kristen Miller, Tuskegee University, "’To, CC’ or ‘To, BCC’: Lessons in
Audience and Medium from King’s ‘Letter from a Birmingham Jail’"
Clark Moreland, University of Texas of the Permian Basin, "The
Hegemonic Ascendancy of Martin Luther King Jr.’s ‘Letter from
Birmingham Jail’ in FYC Anthologies"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

J.24 	 Visual Rhetoric for Social Change in the Writing
Classroom

This panel looks at the possible ways various visual texts can expand our
definitions of writing and social change.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Heather Graves, University of Alberta
Speakers: Rosanne Carlo, College of Staten Island (CUNY), "Students
as Actors, Not Consumers: Toward a Heuristic for the Production of
Graphic Novels in the Composition Classroom"
Brenda Hardin Abbott, Bay Path University, "Challenging Gendered
Scripts in Education through Movie Trailers: The Critical Potential of
iMovie"
Heather Graves, University of Alberta, "Ethical Energy, Immoral Energy:
Strategies for Teaching Visual Argument for Social Change"
6-Information Technologies

J.25 	 Just Going to Leave This Here: Empirical Study of Social
Media
A panel of five flash presentations on empirical studies of social media
practices and a discussion of digital literacy and research methods.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Kristen Moore, Texas Tech University
Speakers: Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University, "Technical Writing
in the Wild: Redditing and Writing"

234

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 234

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Michael Faris, Texas Tech University, "Professional Use of Social Media
in Writing Studies"
Randall Monty, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, "Where and How
It Goes: Multimodal Transfer among Transnational Students"
Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida, "What’s Going On?: Challenges and Opportunities for Social Media Use and Research"
Amber Buck, University of Alabama, "A Life Lived Socially: Longitudinal Studies of Social Media Use"
3-Community, Civic & Public

J.26 	 The Pleasures of Writing for New Audiences: A Tribute to
Sondra Perl
Three veteran teacher/writers share experiences writing for public
audiences and reflect on the implications for teaching and learning.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Sondra Perl, Lehman College, City University of New York
Speakers: Nancy Sommers, Harvard University, "Blogging for The
Huffington Post: Finding a Public Voice"
Chris Anson, North Carolina State University, "The Genre of the Public
Review: Expeditions into the Wilds of TripAdvisor"
Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, "‘Rome Notes’: Poetic Data along the
Appian Way"
8-Taking Action

J.27 	 Digital Technologies as Agents for Change

In this session, panelists examine how online media are used to affect
change in local and global contexts.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University
Speakers: Baotong Gu, Georgia State University, "Situated Free Speech
and Democracy: Design of WeChat and Activism"
Jessica Ouellette, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "The Viability
of Digital Spaces as Sites for Transnational Feminist Action and
Engagement: A Study of Rhetorical Circulation"
Carrie Grant, Purdue University, "What’s the Power of an All-Girls Tech
Camp?: A Study of Feminist Intervention"
Jennifer Williams, Chandler-Gilbert Community College, "Social Media
Action: Using FaceBook to Fight YouTube"
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, "Situated Free Speech and
Democracy: Design of WeChat and Activism"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 235

235

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

J.28 	 Threshold Concepts and the Two-Year College:
Reshaping Writing Courses, Writing Programs,
and Writing Centers

This panel explores the generative potential of threshold concepts in
two-year colleges.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Joyce Walker, Illinois State University
Speakers: Marlena Stanford, Salt Lake Community College, "What
Must Transfer to Transfer-Level Writing Courses?: Developing a
Pre-Transfer Level Writing Curriculum Using Threshold Concepts"
Terry Peterman, Texas Christian University, "Interrogating Subject
Landscapes: Writing Centers as Threshold Concepts of Learning"
Justin Jory, Salt Lake Community College, "Minimalistic Design:
Threshold Concepts and Writing Program Development at the
Two-Year College"
Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College, "Opening Portals
to Occupational Disciplines Using Threshold Concepts"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

J.29 	 Research as Action: Studying Metacognition in the
Writing Classroom

This panel will share the results of two studies about metacognition and
transfer in writing classrooms.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Randi Browning, University of California, Santa Barbara,
"Transfer and Threshold Concepts: Developing Metacognitive Habits
of Mind and Reflexive Practices in Writing Classes"
Ilene Miele, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Transfer and
Threshold Concepts: Developing Metacognitive Habits of Mind and
Reflexive Practices in Writing Classes"
Nicole Warwick, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Assessing
Metacognition in First-Year Composition at UC Santa Barbara"
Josh Mehler, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Assessing
Metacognition in First-Year Composition at UC Santa Barbara"

236

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 236

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

J.30 	 Ohio Farm Narratives: A Feminist Approach to
Collaboration, Conversation, and Action

This presentation utilizes feminist rhetorical practices in order to explore
the century-old farming narratives of rural Ohioans.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Jeannie Waller, University of Arkansas
Speaker: Christine Denecker, The University of Findlay
7-Institutional and Professional

J.31 	 Writing for Cross-National Engagement: Research,
Pedagogy, Advocacy

This panel discusses work across three institutions to promote crossnational engagement in writers, writing programs, and writing centers.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Susan Thomas, The University of Sydney, "Turning Japanese:
Writing Center Collaborations between Nagoya University and the
University of Sydney"
Speakers: George Pullman, Georgia State University, "Cross-Cultural
Rhetoric: The Myth of East and West"
Frances Di Lauro, The University of Sydney, "International Participatory
Writing Using Mobile Technologies"
Robert Cummings, University of Mississippi, "OER and International
Composition"
8-Taking Action

J.32 	 Hispanic-Serving Institutions: Strategies for Big Data,
Intellectual Ferment, and Emotional Communities

We boost Latino completion when we contextualize big data, spark
intellectual ferment, and recognize the power of emotional communities.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Speakers: Linda Palumbo, Cerritos College
Gilbert Contreras, Cerritos College
Frank Gaik, Cerritos College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 237

237

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

8-Taking Action

J.33 	 Influencing Public Policy
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Jennifer Foradori, Idaho State University
Speakers: Emily Kirkpatrick, National Council of Teachers of English
Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver
Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan
Kathleen Fitzpatrick, Modern Language Association
11-Research

J.34 	 Acting on Data: Corpus-Based, Computer-Aided Analysis
of Student Writing
Exploring new ways to engage the study of writing, this session uses
data-driven analyses to challenge understandings of student writing.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Sara West, University of Arkansas
Speakers: Duncan Buell, University of South Carolina, "Revision as Big
Data: Correlating Student Revisions with Key Situational Variables"
Thomas Peele, The City College of New York, "Revising Revision: Big
Data Analysis of Students’ Revision Practices"
Laura Aull, Wake Forest University, "Tagging Texts to Learn How Student
Writers Overstate Arguments"
Chris Holcomb, University of South Carolina, "Revision as Big Data:
Correlating Student Revisions with Key Situational Variables"

238

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 238

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

K Sessions: 3:30–4:45 p.m.
Taking Action Workshop Sessions
K.36 	 Taking Action Workshop: Influencing Policy
Refer to page 18 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Speakers: Lori Shorr, Temple University
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College

K.37 	 Taking Action Workshop: Making Action Plans
Refer to page 19 for abstract.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Speaker: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University

2-Basic Writing

K.01 	 Helping the Academically Underserved: Reinvesting in
Basic Writing at a Four-Year University
A panel that looks at the process of creating basic writing program for
underserved Appalachian students at an HBCU.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Dayna Goldstein, Kent State University
Speakers: Jessica Barnes-Pietruszynski, West Virginia State University
Jeff Pietruszynski, West Virginia State University
Barbara Ladner, West Virginia State University
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.02 	 Visual, Online, and Geographic Spaces: Places for Social
Action
Panelists investigate visual rhetorics, social media, and geographic
information systems as methods for instituting social change.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Gregory Wilson, Texas Tech University
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 239

239

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers: Leigh Elion, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Tactical
Multi-Modality: San Francisco’s Community Muralists Respond to
Gentrification"
Clayton Benjamin, University of Central Florida/USF Sarasota,
"Humanities and GIS?: Situating Geographic Information Systems
in Humanities Research"
John Gagnon, Michigan State University, "Making Docile: Visual Signage
as an Exertion of State Power in Lansing’s Eastside"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.03 	 Writing for Real This Time: Authenticity through WID in
FYC Sequence Design
The panelists seek to understand what place, if any, WID and studentdirected learning objectives have in the FYC classroom.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Alison Witte, Trine University
Speakers: Marlene Galvan, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley,
"Integrating Genre Study of Discourse Communities into the FYC
Sequence"
Shoney Flores, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, "Reflecting
Forward: Students Thinking about FYC Transfer through Real Writing
Assignments"
Andrew Hollinger, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, "Build
Something Awesome: Sustainable Assignment Design and Assessment"
Thomas De La Cruz, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, "Real
Research for Real Audiences"
8-Taking Action

K.04 	 Teaching While Black: Academic Profiling in Action

Our presentation will foreground ways to take action against oppressive
institutionalized forces through teaching and mentoring coalitions.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Beverly Moss, Ohio State University, "Teaching While Black:
Academic Profiling in Action"
Speakers: Telsha Curry, Syracuse University, "Teaching While Black:
Academic Profiling in Action"
Joyce Hill, The University of Akron, "Teaching While Black: Academic
Profiling in Action"

240

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 240

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

13-Theory

K.05 	 Strategies for (Ambiguous) Writing Situations: Using
Kenneth Burke as/in Posthuman Writing Studies

This panel considers writing in posthuman contexts using Burke’s work.
An unconventional juxtaposition as a strategy for evolving situations.

Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Courtney Wooten, Stephen F. Austin State University
Speakers: Kellie Sharp-Hoskins, New Mexico State University, "Going
through the Motions and Actions: Burke, New Materialism, and
Revision"
Chris Mays, University of Nevada, Reno, "Revision as Heresy: Writing,
Change, and Kenneth Burke’s Piety"
Nathaniel Rivers, Saint Louis University, "Predetermined Writing"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.06 	 Publishing in CCCC’s Studies in Writing and Rhetoric

Making the submission and review process of the CCCC SWR monograph
series transparent.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Victor Villanueva, Washington State University
Speakers: Anna Plemons, Washington State University, "Navigating the
System"
Lauren Rosenberg, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic,
"One Author’s Experiences"
Respondents: Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago
Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.07 	 Mass Education and Unbundled Access: MOOCs and the
New BA

This panel analyzes MOOCs and other online-only institutions in terms of
rhetoric of access and global learning initiatives.
Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: David Fleming, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: David Fleming, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Writing
in the Unbundled University"
Brian Henderson, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, "Education
for the Masses or Money-Making Monstrosity?: A Critical Analysis of
Global Freshman Academy"
Evin Groundwater, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, "The
Egalitarian Rhetoric of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs)"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 241

241

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

8-Taking Action

K.08 	 Actions against Stereotype Threat: Reflection, Tutoring,
and Service-Learning
This presentation discusses three actions to decrease stereotype threat:
reflective writing, tutoring, and service-learning.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University
Speakers: Cayce Wicks, Florida International University, "Reflective
Writing in the ClassTaking Action against Stereotype Threat"
Darrel Elmore, Florida International University, "Service Learning in
Action: Strategies for Combating Stereotype Threat through
Community Engagement"
Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, "Dual-Enrollment
Partnership: Tutoring, Mindset, & High-Stakes Testing"
Respondent: Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University
13-Theory

K.09 	 Recontextualizing Writing Pedagogies

This panel offers different lenses to recontextualize composing, writing
pedagogies, and Chicana student development as writers.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Emily Wright, Methodist University
Speakers: Lana Oweidat, Goucher College, "Anti-Islamophobia
Pedagogy: Global Citizenship, Transnational Feminism, and Rhetorical
Education"
Kelly Medina-Lopez, New Mexico State University, "When I Drowned
My First Words: Using the La Llorona Myth to Understand Chican@
Writerly Development"
Dhruba Neupane, University of Waterloo, "The Importance of Not
Meaning: Linguistic Others and a Critique of Intention"
8-Taking Action

K.10 	 Strategies for Campus-Wide Change

This panel offers pragmatic, context-specific models for improving undergraduate writing education.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Ti Wu, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Brad Queen, U.C. Irvine, "Taking Action on Class Size in
First-Year Composition"

242

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 242

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Deborah Marrott, Utah Valley University, "Giving Credit Where Credit Is
Due: Taking Strategic Action to Secure Credit toward Graduation for a
University’s Basic Writing Course"
Deborah Bertsch, Columbus State Community College, "Taking Action
to Support Repeating FYC Students: The Writing Center for Credit
Project"
Elizabeth Lopez, Georgia State University, "Rhetorical Curriculum
Design: A Case Study in Action-Oriented Undergraduate Program
Revision with Assessment for Critical Thinking"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.11 	 Up for Negotiation: Politics and Pedagogy in Advanced
Writing Courses and Writing Centers
Speakers on this panel represent multiple responses to sites where state
and institutional politics have attempted to influence pedagogy.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Speakers: Jonne Akens, Texas A&M University Texarkana
Corrine Hinton, Texas A&M University Texarkana
Jesse Morrow, Texas A&M University Texarkana
Ben Lindsay, Texas A&M University Texarkana
Doc McGuire, Texas A&M University Texarkana
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.12 	 Pathways to Success: Finding Your Academic Voice
This panel explores the different ways to succeed through writing.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Nadia Zamin, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Sonya Green, Lipscomb University, "Finding an Academic
Voice through Peer Review: Writing Strategies for First-Year
Composition Students"
Stephanie Conner, College of Coastal Georgia, "Creating Curious
Readers and Effective Responders: Using Writing Center Coaches
for Peer Review in First-Year Composition"
Daniel Bernal, University of Arizona, "Meta-Genre for the Meta-Major:
Writing with the Guided Pathways to Success (GPS) Movement"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 243

243

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

5-History

K.13 	 Agency and Action in Microhistories of Composition

Panelists use the methods of microhistory to recover agencies and actions
of people left unexamined by composition’s grand narratives.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Bruce McComiskey, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Speakers: Bruce McComiskey, University of Alabama at Birmingham
David Gold, University of Michigan
Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University
8-Taking Action

K.14 	 Assessment in Disability Studies Research: Improving
Research Sites to Appeal to Wider Audiences in Higher
Education

We report on mixed-methods studies of disability in higher education and
discuss audience as it pertains to assessment.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Megan Keaton, Florida State University
Speakers: Matthew Zajic, University of California, Davis, "Exploring
Clinical Writing Assessment of School-age Children with Disabilities
to Inform Postsecondary Writing Research"
Dev Bose, University of Arizona, "Rethinking Assessment Approaches in
Online Writing Instruction through Composition Preceptorship"
Ella Browning, University of South Florida, "The Critical Accessibility
Framework: Students’ Assessment of Accessibility in Technical
Communication"
Lauren Cagle, University of South Florida, "The Critical Accessibility
Framework: Students’ Assessment of Accessibility in Technical
Communication"
Respondent: Brenda Brueggemann, University of Louisville
6-Information Technologies

K.15 	 Writing-toward-Action in Epic Open Learning:
A Praxis-Oriented Approach to MOOC Design

In this panel, the presenters will share how they used praxis-oriented
inquiry as a form of writing-toward-action to design a FYC MOOC.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer Enoch, Florida State University
Speakers: Angela Clark-Oates, Arizona State University, "Global
Academy, Local Learners: What Can MOOCs Tell Us about Writing
(About) Communities?"

244

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 244

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Mark Haunschild, Arizona State University, "Marketing Misnomers:
What We Talk about When We Talk about MOOCs"
Michelle Stuckey, Arizona State University, "We’re All Novices Here:
Reimagining Student-Centered Learning in MOOCs"
Respondent: Duane Roen, Arizona State University
8-Taking Action

K.16 	 Taking Action at the Border: Acknowledging and
Addressing Differences among the Diverse

Data from writing students at universities on the U.S.-Mexico border help
us to take action to improve writing instruction for all students.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Jeanette Lehn, Florida State University
Speakers: Mais Al-Khateeb, New Mexico State University, "Listening to
Diverse Student Voices: Student Reported Challenges and Successes in
Border Writing Programs"
Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University, "Taking Action and Making
Changes in Border Writing Programs"
Karen Trujillo, New Mexico State University, "Listening to Diverse
Student Voices: Student Reported Challenges and Successes in Border
Writing Programs"
K.T. Shaver, California State University Long Beach, "Asking Questions
about Students Challenges and Successes in Border Writing Programs"
Beth Brunk-Chavez, University of Texas at El Paso, "Asking Questions
about Students Challenges and Successes in Border Writing Programs"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.17 	 Assessing Institutions, Programs, Centers, and Spaces
The panelists will provide strategies and tactics for researching and
assessing institutions, programs, and digital studio spaces toward
frameworks for supporting student success, multiliteracies, and
intra-institutional partnerships.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Rachel Efstathion, Temple University
Speakers: Vandana Gavaskar, Ventura College, "When the Rubber Hits
the Road: Writing and Institutional Assessments"
Fernando Sanchez, Purdue University, "Of Evolutions and Mutations:
Assessment as Tactics for Action in WAC Partnerships"
Jason Custer, Florida State University, "More Modalities, More Problems:
Establishing a Framework and Assessment Practices for Multimodal
Composition Support Structures"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 245

245

continued on next page3/2/16

6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

11-Research

K.18 	 Research on Materiality and Embodiment

This panel presents frameworks and findings for investigating big data,
intersectionality, and narrativity as it pertains to embodiment and
materiality.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Amy Cicchino, Florida State University
Speakers: Melissa Yang, University of Pittsburgh, "Progress
Pigeon[hole]–Interactive Animal Rhetorics"
Kathleen Daly, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Beyond Digital
Ubiquity: Material Consequences of Big Data Rhetoric in Higher
Education"
Ondrea Quiros, El Paso Community College, "Bridging the Divide:
Helping College Freshmen Deal with Adversity by Bringing in the
Community"
Jacob Craig, Florida State University, "What Gives Shape to Writing
Practices: Investigating How Composing Environments and Writing
Technologies Shape Writers’ Practices over Time"
Arturo Valdespino, El Paso Community College, "Bridging the Divide:
Helping College Freshmen Deal with Adversity by Bringing in the
Community"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.19 	 Can You Hear Me Now?: Using Audio to Teach Writing

The panel demonstrates the valued ways sound can be effectively used to
teach writing.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Andrew Burgess, Florida State University
Speakers: Andrew Burgess, Florida State University, "What’s That
Sound?: Toward a Multimodal Understanding of Music as
Mode-In-Relation"
Shannon Mrkich, West Chester University, "Dictating Student Feedback:
Bring Your ‘Voice’ Alive in Print"
Jennifer Ware, Wright State University, "Sound Action: Experiential
Learning with Audio Documentaries and Museum Artifacts"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.20 	 Rhetorical Listening: Difference, Materiality, and the
Classroom

These panelists explore methods for engaging meaningfully with others
and developing actions for change.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three

246

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 246

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Chair: Amy Lueck, Santa Clara University
Speakers: Esther Schupak, Bar-Ilan University, "Implications of Listening
Rhetoric for the Composition Classroom"
Shersta Chabot, Arizona State University, "Pedagogies of Strategic Action:
Composition as Engagement with Women’s Material Culture"
Jonathan Seggelke, Metropolitan State University of Denver, "Against
Me! and Caitlyn Jenner: Using Rhetorical Analysis in First-Year
Composition to Investigate Gender Norms"
Christina Grimsley, Texas Woman’s University, "Gender, Multimodal
Writing, and Flipped Teaching: How New Definitions of Literacy
Impact Women in the Classroom"
8-Taking Action

K.21 	 Reclaiming Rhetorics of Resistance in the 21st Century
Panelists in this session examine rhetorical impediments to the political
effectiveness of Leftist activism in the 21st century.

GRB Room 351A, Level Three
Chair: Kainat Abidi, St. John’s University
Speakers: Valerie Smith, University of Waterloo, "Activism That Endures:
Idle No More v Conservative Tactical Rhetoric"
Chitra Karki, University of Waterloo, "The Third Gaze: Intracultural
Conflict and the Fracturing of Solidarity among Transnational Migrant
Communities"
Frankie Condon, University of Waterloo, "Right-wing Rhetoric and Social
Media in an Age of Repressive Tolerance"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.22 	 Getting Involved: Civil and Legal Literacy

This panel explores civic and legal writing as possible ways to engage
with the community.

GRB Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Robert Gilmor, University of Denver
Speakers: Joe Wagner, Bowling Green State University Firelands, "Taking
Legal Action in the First-Year Composition Class"
Drew Loewe, St. Edward’s University, "Threshold Concepts for Legal
Writers"
Christopher Foree, Texas Christian University, "A Civil Tone and a Critical Eye: Encouraging Dual-Credit Students to Think Like College
Students and Act Like Citizens"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 247

247

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.23 	 Build It and They Won’t Come: Action Plan for the Stealth
Veteran
Effective pedagogies for invisible veterans who disaffiliate but are still
marked by military literacies and experience.

GRB Room 351B, Level Three
Chair: Mariana Grohowski, Massachusetts Maritime Academy
Speakers: A. R. Mallory, Iowa State University, "Respecting Veterans’
Desire for Invisibility in the Writing ClassPedagogical Theory and
Practice That Supports without Labeling"
Liam Corley, U.S. Naval Academy, "Not Your Granddaddy’s Veteran:
Disaffiliation and the Composition Classroom"
Derek Handley, Community College of Allegheny County, "Another
Mission: Citizenship Pedagogy in the First-Year Writing Classroom"
14-Writing Programs

K.24 	 Visualizing the Labor of Writing Center through RAD
Research: Toward the Materiality of the Everyday Work
of Teaching and Learning for Students, Staff, and
Professionals
Using empirical research to spur and sustain action, this panel explores
labor and its materiality for a range of writing center audiences.

GRB Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Harry Denny, Purdue University
Speakers: Harry Denny, Purdue University, "Most Served, Least Served,
Best Served?: Writing Center Assessment as Advancing Social Justice
Dialogue"
Patrick Love, Purdue University, "Writing Center Sessions as Articulated
Labor: Strategies to Assess Tutoring Strategies and Make Work
Visible"
Mary McCall, Purdue University, "Avoid Going on the Defensive:
Articulating Writing Center Assessment through the Invisible Labor
of Annual Reports"
Beth Towle, Purdue University, "Tutoring as (Hard) Labor: How
Assessment Makes Writing Center Work Visible to Institutions"

248

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 248

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

11-Research

K.25 	 Innovations in Big Data Research

This panel shares big data research that helps our field to better understand
discursive shifts in threshold concepts, archives, and embodiment.

GRB Room 351D, Level Three
Chair: Scott Banville, Nicholls State University
Speakers: Valerie Robin, Georgia State University, "Innovation and the
Digital Archive of Literacy Narratives: An Exploration and Implementation of Innovation in Rhetoric and Composition"
Kristine Johnson, Calvin College, "Discursive Thresholds"
Kateland Wolfe, Georgia State University, "The Embodied and Embedded
Practices of Embodiment: A ‘Distant Reading’ of Embodiment
Scholarship"
Michael Neal, Florida State University, "Undergraduate Inquiry: Archival
Research as an Alternative to the Ubiquitous Research Paper"
13-Theory

K.26 	 Exploring the Rhetoric of New Media and Identity

This panel explores how we teach and talk about new media and identity
in the field and with our students.

GRB Room 351C, Level Three
Chair: Kelly Blewett, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Justin Hodgson, Indiana University, "Exploring the New
Aesthetic: Hyperrhetoricity, New Media, and Mediated Expectations"
Erika Sparby, Northern Illinois University, "Anonymity, Design, and
Identification: The Rhetorical Construction of Identity on Digital Social
Media"
Chris Gerben, St. Edward’s University, "Perceptual Beta: The Importance
of Changing Terms for Online and ‘New’ Writing with Our Students"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.27 	 Advocating for First-Year Writing and Library Partnerships
through Shared Threshold Concepts
Using shared threshold concepts, we partnered to advocate against one-off,
skills-focused writing and research instruction.

GRB Room 351E, Level Three
Chair: I. Moriah McCracken, St. Edward’s University
Speakers: Brittney Johnson, St. Edward’s University
Kayla Sulewski, St. Edward’s University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 249

249

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

8-Taking Action

K.28 	 Threshold Concepts, Affective Dispositions, Writing
Transfer, and Writer Identity: An Action-Oriented Session
for Connections and Collaboration
Participate in integrative research on threshold concepts, dispositions,
transfer, and identity to generate robust writing frameworks.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Barbara Bird, Taylor University
Speakers: Mary Tripp, University of Central Florida
Barbara Bird, Taylor University
Lisa Tremain, Occidental College
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.29 	 Investigating "Consequences" of a Community Literacy
Partnership: Results from a Study of "Writing for Change"

This session presents the results of our assessment of a community literacy
partnership involving high school and college students.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Tina Bly, University of Oklahoma
Speakers: Justin Lohr, University of Maryland
Carly Finkelstein, Northwestern High School
Heather Lindenman, University of Maryland
7-Institutional and Professional

K.30 	 Transaction, Inaction, and Reaction: The Many "Actions"
of Adjunct Composition Work
This session interrogates the current disabling communication between
adjunct and TT faculty and proposes alternatives that unite both.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
Chair: Matthew Boedy, University of North Georgia
Speakers: Carol Haviland, California State University, San Bernardino,
"What-Us? Yes-YOU!!"
Maggie Cecil, California State University San Bernardino, "Writing
Centers Do It Better"
Gina Hanson, California State University, San Bernardino, "Language
Matters Here Too"
Chloe de los Reyes, California State University, San Bernardino

250

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 250

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

4-Creative Writing

K.31 	 Composing Disability Memoir as Transformative Action

Memoir and life writing provide a creative platform for narratives that take
transformative action to challenge normative assumptions.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Madaline Walter, Benedictine College
Speakers: Hilary Selznick, Illinois State University, "Acting Strategically:
Disabled Life Writing as a New Rhetoric of Pain"
Madaline Walter, Benedictine College, "Wielding a Crayon in a Battle for
the ‘Mad’: Emilie Autumn’s The Asylum for Wayward Victorian Girls"
Shannon Walters, Temple University, "Collaboration for Action: Disability
and Multimodal Revision in l"
Tonya Stremlau, Gallaudet University, "Taking Writing Matters into Our
Own Hands: A Deaf Writing Workshop"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.32 	 Resilience and Agency: Taking Action on Labor,
Curriculum, and the Work of Writing Program
Administration

Panelists share strategies for enhancing WPA resilience in light of economic
pressures and institutional constraints.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Speakers: Jonathan Udelson, University of Louisville, "Total Quality
for Whom?: Attending to the Emotional Dimensions of Contingent
Instructors’ Work in an Age of Fast Capitalism"
Shari Stenberg, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Sustaining Good WPA
Work in Hard Institutional Times: A Study of Veteran WPAs’ Strategies
for Resilience and Agency"
James Beitler, Wheaton College, "Defining Transitions: Building WPA
Agency in Changing Times"
Brett Griffiths, University of Michigan, "Rethinking ‘Class’: Poverty,
Pedagogy, and Two-Year College Writing Programs"
Debbie Minter, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Sustaining Good WPA
Work in Hard Institutional Times: A Study of Veteran WPAs’ Strategies
for Resilience and Agency"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 251

251

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

K.33 	 Taking Action and Taking Responsibility: A Roundtable
for Caucuses, Special Interest Groups, Standing Groups,
and the NCTE/CCCC

This roundtable/conversation addresses institutional constraints that have
led to a "siloing" rhetoric that frames caucuses as non-intersectional, discrete groups, while the label of "special" implies the broader organization
is unmarked and white. What are our responsibilities to our caucuses and
what responsibilities do the caucuses have to each other?

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University
Speakers: Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, "Coalition and
Decolonization: An American Indian Caucus Manifesto"
Tara Wood, Rockford University, "Recognizing Interdependence"
Linh Dich, Miami University, "Shaping ‘Our’ Public, Professional
Identity: The Influence of Interest Groups on the Broader Organization"
Casie Cobos, "Decentering the Polis"
Al Harahap, University of Arizona
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, "Seeing Each Other for
Radical Coalition Building"
Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University, "An Alliance beyond
Signal-Boosting"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.34 	 Finding Meaning in the Midst of Academe’s Identity Crisis
We discuss ways to reimagine our work as compositionists at mid-career,
given the widespread feeling of discontent about academe.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Angela Crow, James Madison University
Speakers: Angela Crow, James Madison University, "Belonging and
Bicycles, Finding a Comfortable Fit for Mid-Life Advocacy"
Cindy Moore, Loyola University Maryland, "Career Contemplation with
the Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up"
Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, "Searching for Tommy Merton,
Institutional Identity and Personal Mission"
Peggy O’Neill, Loyola University Maryland, "Losing Your Way or
Exploring New Territory?"

252

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 252

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.35 	 Enacting Knowledge Transfer at the Community College:
Three Case Studies of Writing Transfer across Disciplines
and Programs
This panel will trace the transfer knowledge acquired by students as they
navigate the community college curriculum.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College
Speakers: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, "Using Transfer
Knowledge to Bridge College and Work"
Holly Pappas, Bristol Community College
Jean-Paul Nadeau, Bristol Community College

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 253

253

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Special Interest Groups
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG.01 	 American Indian Caucus Business Meeting
	

Business Meeting for American Indian Caucus.

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level Two
	Speakers: Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University
	
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
	
Malea Powell, Michigan State University
	

3-Community, Civic & Public

	

Caucus business meeting.

FSIG.02 	 Asian/Asian American Caucus
	 Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
	

K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University

FSIG.03 	 Black Caucus
	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
	Co-Chairs: David E. Kirkland, Michigan State University
	
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University
	

7-Institutional and Professional

	

Open to all, this SIG offers a space to discuss labor, update on the
caucus’s progress, and develop strategies for change.

FSIG.04 	 Labor Caucus SIG Business Meeting

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two

Co-Chairs: Marc Bousquet, Emory University
Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University, Tempe
Mitzi Jones, University of Arkansas-Fort Smith
Craig Crowder, University of Kentucky
Heather Julien, Emory University
Jessica Philbrook, University of Missouri
Vandana Gavaskar, Ventura College
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University

254

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 254

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

7-Institutional and Professional

	

Caucus Business Meeting.

FSIG.05 	 Latin@ Caucus Business Meeting
	 Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
	Co-Chairs: Raul Sanchez, University of Florida
	
Iris Ruiz, University of California Merced
	
Bruce Martin, University of Houston
	

8-Taking Action

	

SIG supports instructors who work with veterans, ROTC and Academy
cadets, and currently-serving members of the military.

FSIG.06 	 Writing with Current, Former, and Future Members of 	
	 the Military

	 Hilton Room 333, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College
Michael Edwards, Washington State University
	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

	

This SIG will explore progressive approaches to grammar in the
classroom, taking action by using grammar as a set of tools, not rules.

FSIG.07 	 Progressive Approaches to Grammar, Punctuation, and 	
	 Usage SIG

	 Hilton Room 330, Level Three

	Speaker: Joseph Salvatore, The New School
	

4-Creative Writing

	

Experienced creative nonfiction writers will discuss ways to invite all
writers to use and teach this genre.

FSIG.08 	 Creative Nonfiction in Action: The Difference a
	 Postcard Makes

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two

	Co-Chairs: Libby Falk Jones, Berea College
	
Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver
	
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 255

255

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

14-Writing Programs

	

This SIG addresses the needs of CCCC’s participants working in
undergraduate rhetoric and writing studies (courses, programs, majors).

FSIG.09 	 Undergraduate Consortium in Rhetoric and Writing

	 GRB Room 351D, Level Three

	Co-Chair: Helen Foster, University of Texas, El Paso
	Speaker: Angela Petit, GLC Solutions
	

3-Community, Civic & Public

	

This SIG’s aim is to bring together scholars, teachers, and theorists
interested in issues related to Arabs and Muslims.

FSIG.10 	 SIG on Arab, Arab American, and Muslim Identity and 	
	Issues

	 Hilton Room 332, Level Three
	
	Chair: Tamara Issak, Syracuse University, "SIG on Arab and Muslim 	
	 Issues"
	Co-Chair: Lana Oweidat, Goucher College, "SIG on Arab and Muslim 	
	 Issues"
	

9-Language

	

Facilitates exchanges of writing programs, pedagogies and resources
across geographic, linguistic, cultural and institutional borders.

FSIG.11 	 Transnational Composition Standing Group

	 Hilton Room 327, Level Three

	Chair: Brice Nordquist, Syracuse University
	

11-Research

	

This SIG provides an opportunity for those interested in undergraduate
research to discuss relevant issues.

FSIG.12 	 Special Interest Group on Undergraduate Research

	 GRB Room 340A, Level Three

	Speakers: Megan Schoettler, Miami University of Ohio	
Michael Zerbe, York College of Pennsylvania
	

7-Institutional and Professional

	

The annual business meeting of the Independent Writing Departments
and Programs Association, a Standing Group of the CCCC.

FSIG.13 	 IWDPA Business Meeting

	 Hilton Room 342, Level Three

256

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 256

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	Co-Chairs: Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi, University
	
Leslie Werden, Morningside College
	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

	

This SIG offers a forum for discussion and support for best practices in
mindfulness and contemplative writing pedagogies.

FSIG.14 	 Contemplative Writing Pedagogies Special Interest 		
	Group
	 Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
	Speakers: Emily Beals, California State University, Fresno
	
Jennifer Consilio, Lewis University
	
Donna Strickland, University of Missouri, Columbia
	

7-Institutional and Professional

	
	

The PGS SIG aims to provide scholars with opportunities to network,
share ideas and information, and discuss play and games in composition.

FSIG.15 	 Play and Game Studies Special Interest Group

	 Hilton Room 335B, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida	
Danielle Roach, Miami University and Old Dominion University
Dawn Opel, Arizona State University
Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute
Kevin Moberly, Old Dominion University
Megan Mize, Old Dominion University
Kris Purzycki, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University
Emily Bunner, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
	

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

	

We will discuss enhancing the engagement of adult learners in their
writing courses through a focus on relevance and applicability.

FSIG.16 	 Adult Writers in Diverse Contexts SIG

	 GRB Room 351C, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, CUNY
Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 257

257

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

13-Theory

	

This is the annual meeting of the Rhetoric and Religious Traditions
Standing Group. Anyone interested is welcome to attend.

FSIG.17 	 Rhetoric and Religious Traditions Standing Group
	 Business Meeting

	 Hilton Room 329, Level Three

	Speaker: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee
	

6-Information Technologies

	

The SIG leaders will report on research findings about students’ experiences with OWI and prompt a discussion about participants’ students.

FSIG.18 	 Special Interest Group for Effective Practices in Online 	
	 Writing Instruction: Student Matters and the CCCC 		
	 OWI Principles and Effective Practices

	 Hilton Room 338, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University
Mahli Mechenbier, Kent State University, Twinsburg
	

3-Community, Civic & Public

	

This SIG provides collaborative space for participants to share their
research, pedagogy, and current projects.

FSIG.19 	 Community Literacy, Service-Learning, and Public 		
	 Rhetorics (SIG)
	 Hilton 339B, Level Three
	Co-Chairs: Connie Snyder Mick, Notre Dame University
	
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, "Community Literacy,
	 Service-Learning, and Public Rhetorics SIG"
	

4-Creative Writing

	

We explore ways in which fiction and poetry can energize our research
and practice as teachers, scholars, and writers.

FSIG.20 	 Creative Writing SIG: Creating a Writing Space

	 Hilton Room 336A, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Benjamin Miller, CUNY Graduate Center
Ben Ristow, Hobart and William Smith Colleges

258

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 258

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	

14-Writing Programs

	

The Studio PLUS SIG supports writing instruction and programs
operating in "third spaces" across labels and institutions.

FSIG.21 	 Studio PLUS Special Interest Group

	 Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
	

Chair: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College

	

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

	

This is the annual business meeting of the Working-Class Culture and
Pedagogy SIG.

FSIG.22 	 Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy

	 Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
	
	

Co-Chairs: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga
William Thelin, University of Akron

	

14-Writing Programs

	

An open roundtable discussion between experienced faculty and
graduate students regarding best practices in grad student mentorship.

FSIG.23 	 Graduate Student Special Interest Group: Graduate 		
	 Student Mentorship

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two

	Co-Chairs: Caddie Alford, Indiana University
Jennifer Warfel Juszkiewicz, Indiana University
	Speakers: Katie Zabrowski, Saint Louis University
Nathaniel Rivers, Saint Louis University
Allison Carr, Coe College
Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati
	

7-Institutional and Professional

	

Open to all CCCC attendees, this SIG is a participant-led sharing
session on academic mothering in rhetoric and composition.

FSIG.24 	 Academic Mothering in Rhetoric and Composition

 Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
	

Speaker: April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University

FSIG.25 	 Queer Caucus

	 Hilton Room 343A, Level Three

	Co-Chairs: Donnie Sackey, Wayne State University
Becca Hayes, Michigan State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 259

259

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Friday, 6:30–9:00 p.m.

FSIG.26 	 Caucus after the Caucus
	

Post Caucus meet up as a group.

	 Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
	 8:00–9:00 p.m.

	Speakers: Donnie Sackey, Wayne State University
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
	 University
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University

FSIG.27 	 English Education/Composition Connections
	

This SIG is a forum for professionals in composition, English education, and related areas to meet, discuss issues, and build community.

	 Hilton Room 340A, Level Three	

	 Co-Chair: Mark Letcher, Lewis University
	 Ken Lindblom, Stony Brook University
	 Gretchen Rumohr-Voskuil, Aquinas College

FSIG.28	 Writing-about-Writing Standing Group

	 The Writing-about-Writing Standing Group supports the development
of writing-about-writing pedagogies for college writing courses. The
group meets to build community and exchange ideas, sharing resources
and ideas about what works in WAW classrooms and why. This meeting
will also elect new at-large members to the group’s steering committee.

	 Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
	 Chair: Doug Downs

260

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 260

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

Saturday, April 9
Special Events and Meetings
Room and Location Names
Sessions are located in both the George R. Brown Convention Center and
the Hilton Americas - Houston using the abbreviations GRB and Hilton.

Two-Year College Saturday Program
Sponsored by the Two-Year College English Association
(TYCA)
Two-Year College English Association Annual Breakfast
and Awards—Saturday
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.
Admission is by advance registration only.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 261

261

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

tyca fame award
This award acknowledges the best mention of the two-year college appearing in any
media during the previous year. The award gives credit to those reporters, writers,
filmmakers, and others who seek out and publicize exemplary students, faculty, programs, campuses, and/or recognize the two-year college system.
The winner will be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

Fame Award Committee
Chair:	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		

Joy Barber, Montana State University, Billings
Sterling Warner (Past Chair), Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Carmen Carrasquillo, Miramar College, San Diego, CA
Michael Dinielli, Chaffey College, Alta Loma, CA
Brett Griffiths, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Bruce Henderson, Fullerton College, CA
Martha Henning, Portland Community College, OR
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA
Mandana Mohsenzadegan, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

For a listing of previous winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/fame.

diana hacker tyca outstanding programs
in english awards for two-year teachers
and colleges
These awards are given annually to honor two-year teachers and their colleges for
exemplary programs that enhance students’ language learning, helping them to
achieve their college, career, and personal goals.
Winners are to be announced at the TYCA Breakfast.

Outstanding Programs Award Committee
Chair: 	
		
		
		
		

Jeff Andelora, Mesa Community College, AZ
Judy Angona, Ocean County College, Tom’s River, NJ
Sravani Banerjee, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Dodie Forrest, Yakima Valley Community College, WA
Juliette Ludeker, Howard Community College, Columbia, MD

For a listing of previous winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/
programs.

262

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 262

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

ANNUAL BUSINESS/TOWN MEETING
Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.

All members and newcomers of CCCC are invited to attend and vote at the business
meeting.
CCCC Chair: Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
CCCC Associate Chair: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa
	 Barbara 
CCCC Assistant Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community
	 College, WA
CCCC Secretary: Jessie L. Moore, Elon University, NC
CCCC Executive Secretary/Treasurer: Emily Kirkpatrick, NCTE, Urbana, IL
CCCC Parliamentarian: Rochelle Rodrigo, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Established Rules for Conduct of the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 All voting members should be properly identified, and only members in good
standing may vote in the business meeting.
2. 	 A quorum of seventy-five members of CCCC in good standing is required for the
transaction of business in this meeting.
3. 	 Anyone wishing the floor should go to a microphone and give his or her name
and institution when recognized by the chair.
4. 	 If procedural rules are adopted by a majority vote of the members present, a twothirds vote will be required to suspend or amend them.
5. 	 Members may offer for discussion and action a sense-of-the-house motion, as
specified in item 4 in the "Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions." Such
motions, if passed, will be broadcast to the members, not as an official CCCC
statement, but as the wish of the majority of the members voting at the Annual
Business Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or another appropriate CCCC body, and can become the substance of a resolution at the next annual convention.
6. 	 Sturgis’s Standard Code of Parliamentary Procedure applies on all questions of
procedure and parliamentary law not specified in the Constitution, Bylaws, or
other rules adopted by CCCC.
7. 	 The Parliamentarian interprets the rules on parliamentary procedures.
8. 	 A secret ballot will be ordered by a motion to vote by secret ballot and an affirmative vote of at least ten members.
Procedural Rules Proposed for Adoption at the Annual Business Meeting
In discussion of resolutions and all other items of business except sense-of the-house
motions:
a. 	 Three minutes will be allowed for each speaker each time.
b. 	 No one may speak a second time on a subject until all who wish to speak have
been heard.
CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 263

263

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

c. 	 The presiding officer will attempt to provide a balance in recognizing pro and
con speakers. If there are no speakers opposing a motion under consideration, the
chair may ask the house to move immediately to a vote in order to expedite the
business.
d. 	 Discussion will be limited to no more than fifteen minutes (not including discussion of amendments) on any main motion or resolution; this time may be
extended in ten-minute increments by consent of the body.
e. 	 Discussion of an amendment to a motion or resolution will be limited to no more
than ten minutes; this time may be extended in six-minute increments by consent
of the body.
f. 	 Amendments to amendments will not be accepted, in order to avoid confusion.
In discussion of sense-of-the-house motions:
a. 	 To be considered for deliberation, a sense-of-the-house motion must be prepared
in writing, must not exceed 50 words, and must be submitted to the chair in three
copies before the call for the adoption of the agenda at the beginning of the business meeting. (Brief prefatory statements in explanation of the motion are not
part of the motion and need not be submitted in writing.)
b. 	 A sense-of-the-house motion may not be amended, except for editorial changes
acceptable to the mover.
c.	 Speakers on sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to two minutes each,
except by dispensation of the chair.
d. 	 Discussion of sense-of-the-house motions shall be limited to ten minutes, except
by dispensation of the chair.
Basic Rules for the Handling of Resolutions at the Annual Business Meeting
l. 	 A call for resolutions will appear in the February issue of College Composition
and Communication. Proposed resolutions received by the chair of the Resolutions Committee two weeks before the conference require the signature of
only five conference members; however, additional signatures are welcome as a
means of indicating the base of support for the resolution.
2.	 The function of the Resolutions Committee is to review all resolutions presented
and to prepare resolutions of its own in areas in which it or the Executive Committee believes conference action is needed. Special attention will be given to
including areas covered in sense-of-the-house motions passed at the last Annual
Business Meeting. In reviewing resolutions, the Resolutions Committee is responsible for combining all resolutions that duplicate one another in substance
and for editing all resolutions.
The Resolutions Committee will report all properly submitted resolutions to the
Annual Business Meeting with a recommendation for action.
	 Resolutions that call for conference action in the areas in which the CCCC Constitution assigns authority to the officers or the Executive Committee will be clearly
labeled as advisory to the officers or the Executive Committee.
264

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 264

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 8:00–5:00 p.m.

	 Resolutions of appreciation may be prepared by the CCCC officers and may be
presented by the Resolutions Committee.
	 The Resolutions Committee will hold an open meeting during the Special Interest
Group time period to clarify and discuss these resolutions with concerned conference members. It is especially urgent that the authors of resolutions or their delegates come to this meeting. Although no new resolutions may be added at this time,
members suggesting additional resolutions will be informed that they may introduce
sense-of-the-house motions at the Annual Business Meeting in accordance with the
rule given in item 4 below. The Resolutions Committee will also have a closed meeting after the open meeting to make such editorial and substantive changes as the
deliberations of the open meeting may suggest.
3. 	 As necessary, resolutions will be retyped so that complex changes will be incorporated into the copies of the resolutions distributed at the Annual Business
Meeting.
		 During the report of the Resolutions Committee at the Annual Business Meeting, one member of the Committee will read the "resolved" portion of each resolution and move its adoption. Adoption will require only a simple majority of
members present. Action will be taken on each resolution before the next resolution is presented.
		 The CCCC officers at their post-convention session will determine the dissemination of, and the action to be taken on, all resolutions adopted.
4. 	 Members may offer sense-of-the-house motions for discussion and action. Such
motions, if passed, will be announced to CCCC members, not as official CCCC
statements, but as the will of the majority of members at the Annual Business
Meeting. Sense-of-the-house motions can affect action by the Executive Committee, or by another appropriate CCCC body, as well as become the substance
of a resolution at the next annual convention. In order to be considered, sense-ofthe-house motions of no more than 50 words must be presented in writing (three
copies) to the chair of the Annual Business Meeting before the adoption of the
agenda.

TYCA Executive Committee Meeting
Hilton Room 344A, Level Three
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 265

265

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

L Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
3-Community, Civic & Public

L.01 	 Historiographic Participatory Action Research:
Reciprocity and Benefits in "Sweet Home Alabama"

This panel examines methodology, negotiation, and service learning
pedagogy in a PAR project situated in a historic Black town in the south.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Michelle Bachelor Robinson, The University of Alabama
Speakers: Margaret Holloway, The University of Alabama, "Taking
Action: Service Learning and Historiographic Research"
Michelle Bachelor Robinson, The University of Alabama, "Actions Speak
Louder than Words: The Making of Academic and Community-Based
Partnerships"
Khirsten Echols, University of Louisville, "Ideas to Action: Mixing
Methods and Taking Names"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.02 	 Facilitating Transfer from FYC to Other Courses: Two
Research-Supported Approaches

Two approaches to explicitly teaching for transfer in FYC increased student motivation to transform rhetorical knowledge for other contexts.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
Chair: Keith Comer, Victoria University of Wellington
Speakers: Ryan Roderick, Carnegie Mellon, "A Wiki to Facilitate
Transfer?"
Susan Tanner, Carnegie Mellon, "The Effects of Collaborative Reflection"
Michael Williams, Carnegie Mellon, "Enactment of a Wiki Assignment
across Three Course Sections"
Joanna Wolfe, Carnegie Mellon University, "Building a Curriculum for
Transfer with Comparative Genre Analysis"
Barrie Olson, UC Blue Ash, "Evaluating a Curriculum for Transfer with
Comparative Genre Analysis"

266

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 266

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

8-Taking Action

L.03 	 Curricular Crossroads: Teaching Professional Writing for
Civic Purposes

This panel repurposes action-oriented genres of business and professional
writing to effect change in the public sphere.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Lauren Connolly, Lewis-Clark State College
Speakers: Patrick McHugh, University of California, Santa Barbara
Ljiljana Coklin, University of California Santa Barbara
Peter Huk, University of California, Santa Barbara
13-Theory

L.04 	 Whispers in the Corner: The Rhetoricity of Gossip

This panel suggests gossip can empower marginalized individuals to speak
by providing a space in which subversive thinking can be voiced.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Pamela VanHaitsma, Old Dominion University
Speakers: Laura Buchholz, Old Dominion University, "’Let Me Peep over
Your Shoulder and Tell You a Story’; Narration and Domestic Space in
the Work of Fanny Fern"
Sarah Spangler, Old Dominion University, "Partitioned Conversations:
Extolling the Virtues of Gossip as a Subversive Feminist Rhetorical
Strategy for Community and Productivity"
Megan Mize, Old Dominion University, "‘Talke Woorth the Hearynge’:
Historically Situating the Rhetorical Nature of Gossip in Early Modern
Conduct Manuals"
5-History

L.05 	 Activism and Action: Rhetorical Histories of Labor

These papers examine how histories of labor have informed and been
informed by rhetorical action.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Rebecca Gerdes-McClain, The University of Oklahoma
Speakers: Rebecca Gerdes-McClain, The University of Oklahoma,
"Acting from History: Edwin Hopkins and Labor Reform"
Joseph Bartolotta, University of New Mexico, "’Action Based on
Knowledge Is Power:’ Multiliteracies and Advocacy in the
International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union"
David Hudson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Curating Literacyin-Action: Managing the Meanings of Literacy at Hull House’s Labor
Museum"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 267

267

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

13-Theory

L.06 	 Redefining and Reimagining the Religious within and
beyond the Writing Classroom

The papers on this panel ask new questions about how religious discourse
unfolds in our students’ writing.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee
Speakers: William Duffy, University of Memphis, "Say So: Negotiating
Proclamation in Composition"
Paul Lynch, Saint Louis University, "Religion as a Mode of Composition"
Lisa Zimmerelli, Loyola University Maryland, "Centering Faith"
Christopher Brown, University of Arizona, "Trans-gressive Potentials of
the Conversion Narrative for Composition Pedagogy"
6-Information Technologies

L.07 	 Develop, Design, Deliver: Teaching Graduate Students to
Teach Writing Online
This panel looks at the need for preparing graduate students to teach
online writing instruction through programs and courses.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Elif Demirel, Karadeniz Technical University
Speakers: Heidi Harris, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "When
OWI Meets QM: Online and Graduate Student Response to
Principles-Based Course Design"
Kelli Cargile-Cook, Texas Tech University, "Developing an OWI
Infrastructure to Support Novice Instructors"
Kevin Eric DePew, Old Dominion University, "Why Tiaras Matter in
OWI: Using Experiential Instructional Delivery to Prepare Online
Writing Instructors"
S. David Grover, Texas Tech University
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.08 	 Action-Based Pedagogies and Multimodal Writing

This panel presents action-based pedagogies and multimodal assignments
that position students to take strategic action in various ways.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Ann Dean, University of Massachusetts Lowell
Speakers: Roopika Risam, Salem State University, "Writing Maps,
Writing the World: A Critical Mapping Pedagogy"
Laurie Gries, University of Florida, "Making Writing Circulate, Making
Writing Matter: A Pedagogy of Doing"

268

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 268

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Erin Anderson, University of Massachusetts, "Composing the Veteran
Experience: A Project-Based Pedagogy"
Tanya Rodrigue, Salem State University, "Composing with Sound: A
Pedagogy of Offering"
8-Taking Action

L.09 	 Crossing the Threshold: Identifying Threshold Concepts
for Students, Teachers, and the University through
Assessment
Assessment reveals threshold concepts, leading to actions that transform
curriculum, train teachers, and communicate beyond writing programs.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Speakers: Amanda Sladek, University of Kansas
Sonya Lancaster, University of Kansas
Julie Perino, University of Kansas
Charlene Summers, University of Kansas
13-Theory

L.10 	 Writing and Illness

This panel explores the physicality of writing.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: Liz Dennis, Barton College
Speakers: Erin Frymire, Northeastern University, "When the Body Writes
Back: Torture and Embodied Composition in the 21st Century"
Rebecca Miner, Northern Michigan University, "Writing Illness Stories:
Considering Shared Expressions of Self-Advocacy"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.11 	 Pedagogy and Ideas: The First-Year Composition Class

This panel explores different pedagogies and ideas to be successful.
Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Speakers: Quanisha Charles, Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
"The Frustrations and Successes of Undergraduates Writing within
Academe"
Beatrice Mendez Newman, The University of Texas-Pan American,
"Being Wrong and Good Ideas: Connections, Innovations, and Writing
Possibilities in First-Year Reader Programs"
Michael Smith, Purdue University, "A Transdisciplinary Experiment in
First-Year Composition"
Michele Irwin, OISE/University of Toronto, "Expressive Writing: A
Gateway to Creative Composing"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 269

269

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

L.12 	 Graduate Students: Key to a University’s Success

This panel explores issues of networking graduate writing courses and
perceptions of academic writing and how these are important in making
universities successful.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Jennifer England, New Mexico State University
Speakers: Meridith Reed, North Carolina State University, "Communities
of Support: Investigating the Informal Peer-to-Peer Mentoring of GTAs"
Crystal Colombini, University of Texas at San Antonio, "From Preparatory
Pedagogy to "Publish or Perish:" Academic Writing Genres and the
Developing Scholar"
Laurie Pinkert, University of Central Florida, "Writing within Our
Discipline: Surveying Writing Courses in Graduate Programs in
Rhetoric and Composition"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.13 	 Remixing Collaboration: (In)Visible Practice and Pedagogy
This panel examines collaboration in three sites: composition scholarship,
peer consultations, and classroom activities.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Rebecca Fraser, The Harry Van Arsdale Center for Labor Studies
Speakers: Amy Berrier, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Stacy Rice, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Brenta Blevins, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
8-Taking Action

L.14 	 Collaboration in Action: Using Quantitative Data-Driven
Arguments to Advocate for Ethical Labor Models
Presents methods of advocating for ethical, sustainable labor models.
Emphasizes focus on data and sensitivity to institutional hierarchy.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: Anita Furtner Archer, Raytheon
Speakers: Elizabeth Barnes, Boise State University
Jan Roser, Boise State University
Christi Nogle, Boise State University
Michelle Payne, Boise State University
Heidi Naylor, Boise State University

270

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 270

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

13-Theory

L.15 	 Negotiating Otherness: An Exploration of Intersections
between Autobiographical Video and Rhetoric

This panel aims to add a new facet to our field’s discussion of Otherness
by using video to present the issue.

Hilton Room 343B, Level Three
Chair: Heather Blain Vorhies, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Speakers: Shewonda Leger, Michigan State University, "What Does a
Haitian Look Like?: Learning to Maintain Two Cultures without
Overlooking One"
Erin Schaefer, Michigan State University, "Video Literacy Narrative
Assignment: Discovering and Transforming Emotion and Prejudice"
Anne Von Petersdorff, Michigan State University, "Foreign Bodies:
Embodied Encounters of Female Travelers between Egypt and
Germany"
Respondent: Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University,
14-Writing Programs

L.16 	 Preparing for a Changing Professional Landscape: Junior
Faculty, Disciplinarities, and Graduate Education
Roundtable participants will discuss how graduate education might accommodate the increasingly complex identities of "Writing Studies."

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Brad Lucas, Texas Christian University
Speakers: Jennifer Courtney, Rowan University, "Not English and beyond
First-Year Writing"
Kelly Kinney, University of Wyoming, "Navigating Program
Independence: Lessons for Junior Faculty outside English"
Gregory Giberson, Oakland University, "Changing Contexts of
Disciplinarity: New Faculty, the Writing Major, and Independence"
Respondents: Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg
Lori Ostergaard, Oakland University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 271

271

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.17 	 Searching the Disciplines: Improving Student Writing
Self-Efficacy through Departmental Collaboration

This panel will describe strategies for cross-departmental collaboration in
order to improve student self-efficacy in research and writing.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Peter Gray, Queensborough Community College, CUNY
Speakers: Mia Reisweber, Leeward Community College, University of
Hawaii, Hilo
Daniel Reardon, Missouri University of Science and Technology
Julie Phelps, Missouri University of Science and Technology
Jossalyn Larson, Missouri University of Science and Technology
8-Taking Action

L.18 	 Activist Literacies within and beyond the Classroom

This session demonstrates methods of "doing" social justice work in the
classroom and community.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Christopher Teutsch, West Chester University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Cara Kozma, High Point University, "Community Publishing
within the Undergraduate Writing Major: A Strategy for Action"
Bret Keeling, Northeastern University, "First-Year Writing and Advocacy:
The Poster Session as a Forum for Developing Students’ Sense of Civic
Responsibility"
Nicole Higgins, University of Missouri-Kansas City, "Writing Community,
Righting Self"
Virginia Crisco, California State University-Fresno, "Activist Literacy and
	 The kNOw Youth Media’s Restorative Justice Project: Shaping Literate
Action in Neoliberal Contexts"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.19 	 Taking Action: Personal Writing, Ethnography, and
Reflection

This session will address tools for using ethnography as to track analyze
and respond to patterns in student writing.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Tara Hembrough, Southeastern Oklahoma State University,
	 "Writing Strategies for Action: A Case Study about an Interdisciplinary
	 Curriculum of Sustainability and Ecocomposition in First-semester
	 Composition, Speech Communication, and University College Courses"

272

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 272

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Andrew Wilson, University of Florida, "Reflection as Research: Strategies
for Teaching and Writing (with) Sincerity"
Jesse Davie-Kessler, Stanford University, "Ethnographic Fieldnotes as a
Pedagogical Tool: Scaffolding the First-Year Writing Experience"
Stuart Brooks, University of Houston, "What Can Writing Do for You?
Personal Writing in the FYC Classroom"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.20 	 Assessment, Accountability, and Strategies of
Collaboration

This panel theorizes strategies for assessment, including student-generated
measures.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Joseph Cirio, Florida State University
Speakers: Jenny Martin, Bridgewater College, "Student-Generated
Rubrics as a Pedagogical Strategy 2"
Alice Trupe, Bridgewater College, "Student-Generated Rubrics as a
Pedagogical Strategy 2"
Bruce Bowles, Florida State University, "Taken Out of Context?:
Examining the Influence of Context on Teachers’ Written Responses
to Student Writing"
Judith Fourzan, University of Texas at El Paso, "Stretching the Hermeneutic Circle, Stretching Writing Assessment Theory: A Theoretical
Comparison between Two Institutions"
Joseph Cirio, Florida State University, "The Affect of Assessment, Cueing
Accountability through the Flows of Communities and Disciplines"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.21 	 Rap and Hip-Hop in the Writing Classroom

These panelists explore the art and craft of hip-hop and rap and generative
models for first-year and advanced writers.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Chair: Deborah Scaggs, Texas A&M International University
Speakers: Jill McKay Chrobak, Oakland University, "‘Good’ Rap Is
Writing and ‘Good’ Writing Is WORK: Teaching the Art of Comp/Rhet
Using the Art of Rap"
Kyesha Jennings, Danville Community College, "Social Analysis: Using
Hip-Hop and Visual Literacy as a Writing Strategy"
Earl Brooks, Pennsylvania State University, "Black Music in the
Composition Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 273

273

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

13-Theory

L.22 	 Political Rhetoric: Ethos, Agency, and Courage

This panel explores how current political rhetoric creates or destroys a
speaker’s ethos.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Jason Hoppe, United States Military Academy
Speakers: Rachel Wolford, Texas Tech University, "Re-creating Her
Own Possibilities: Analyzing Hillary Clinton through Synchronic and
Diachronic Models of Rhetorical Agency"
Bernie Miller, Eastern Michigan University, "Wars, Rhetorical Wars, and
the Role of Women in the Military"
Michael Sobiech, Carson-Newman University, "A Conspiracy Ethos: The
Role of ‘Character’ in Marginal Messages"
13-Theory

L.23 	 Political Literacy in Composition: Critical Pedagogy,
Multiple Voices, or Activism?

Oppositions and possible common grounds among critical-pedagogy,
pluralist, and activist theories of political literacy in composition.

Hilton Room 335A, Level Three
Chair: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Speakers: Donald Lazere, Cal Poly San Luis Obispo, "Pedagogy of Those
Who Support the Oppressor"
William Thelin, University of Akron, "Examining the Self in Critical
Pedagogy"
Teresa Grettano, The University of Scranton, "Jesuit Pedagogy and
Political Literacy in FYW"
13-Theory

L.24 	 Interrogating Digitized Whiteness: Renderings of
Whiteness in Mediated Writing Spaces

This panel discusses how racialized whiteness emerges in digital, public
writing in order to expose and challenge that hegemony.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University
Speakers: Tammie M Kennedy, University of Nebraska at Omaha,
"Exposing White Normativity in Hillary Clinton’s Presidential
Campaign"

274

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 274

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Nicole Snell, Bentley University IDCC, "When Reality Goes Really
Wrong: Whiteness, Captioning, and Reality TV"
Kristi McDuffie, University of Illinois, "Negotiating Whiteness in Parent
Reports of Child Racial Awareness"
Respondent: Joyce Irene Middleton, East Carolina University
14-Writing Programs

L.25 	 Exploring Strange New Worlds: Launching a First-Year
Composition Program while Following the WPA Roadmap
AND Navigating the Texas Core Curriculum
Panel discusses launch of their FYC program that follows both TX Core
and WPA outcomes, reinventing UHCL 40 years after its founding.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Bernie Hall, University of Houston-Clear Lake
Speakers: Christal Seahorn, University of Houston-Clear Lake, "Flying
the Plane while Building It: WPA Action Strategies in a Time of
Exponential Growth"
Chloe Diepenbrock, University of Houston-Clear Lake, "Downward Ho!:
From Covered Wagons to Space Shuttles"
Lorie Jacobs, University of Houston-Clear Lake, "Exploration and
Discovery: Taking Action to Streamline Degree Completion"
Leticia French, University of Houston-Clear Lake, "First Contact:
Navigating New Terrain, Negotiating New Intersections, and
Welcoming New Students"
11-Research

L.26 	 Researching with and through the Personal

These panelists explore sites of physical and emotional trauma though
ethnographic and personal writing/inquiry practice.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Julia Kiernan, Michigan State University
Speakers: Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University, "Too Close for Comfort:
Conducting Research about Lived Experiences"
Todd Snyder, Siena College, "Mountain Violence and Coal Country
Pugilism: Writing about Fighting"
Ashley Doonan, University of New Hampshire, "Vicarious Trauma in the
Class: A Cautionary Analysis"
Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota, "Disciplinary
Performances in the Senior Capstone: Writing Genres in Authentic
Contexts"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 275

275

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

L.27 	 Institutional Whiteness and the Uneven Work of
"Diversity"

Participants share critical readings of institutional whiteness as central to
the task of taking action as compositionists in higher ed.

Hilton Grand Ballroom I, Level Four
Chair: Jamila Kareem, University of Louisville
Speakers: Matthew Abraham, University of Arizona
Christopher Keller, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Carmen Kynard, St. John’s University
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, SUNY
Collin Craig, St. Johns University
6-Information Technologies

L.28 	 Growing #digital Communities: The Tools, the Prison, and
the Writing Classroom

This panel is concerned with the politics and pedagogies of using software
and social media within and to foster communities.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Rhea Estelle Lathan, Florida State University
Speakers: Kevin Brock, University of South Carolina, "Git as Site for
Distributed and Iterative Rhetorical Action"
Mary Stewart, University of California, Davis, "Peripheral Vision:
Challenges of and Strategies for Building Community in Online FYC"
Marco Fernando Navarro, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, "The Digital
Future of Teaching Writing in Prisons: Digital Pedagogy in Digitally
Contested Spaces"
Leah Heilig, Texas Tech University, "A New Essay: Hashtag Campaigns
as Community Writing"

276

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 276

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

13-Theory

L.30 	 Composition, Rhetoric, and Disciplinarity: Coming to
Terms with Our Past and Taking Action for the Future

Leaders provide background on disciplinarity, and engage the attendees in
breakout discussions regarding specific questions on the topic.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University
Discussion Leaders: Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University
Speakers: Gwendolynne Reid, North Carolina State University,
"Interrogating Our Schema for Discipline as Category"
Barry Maid, Arizona State University, "What Others Think Matters"
Jennifer Maher, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, "Embracing
Disciplinary Magnanimity"
Elizabeth Wardle, University of Central Florida, "Understanding
Disciplinarity in Terms of Our Values"
Kristine Hansen, Brigham Young University, "Discipline and Profession:
Can Composition and Rhetoric Be Both?"
Whitney Douglas, Boise State University, "Conceptualizing Disciplinarity
through Curriculum"

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 277

277

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

M Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.01 	 Fostering "Rhetorical Researchers" and Developing
Information Literacy through FYC Instructor/Librarian
Collaboration
This panel focuses on the action first-year instructors can take in
collaboration with instructional librarians to create better researchers.

Hilton Room 332, Level Three
Chair: Lauren Rosenberg, Eastern Connecticut State University,
Willimantic
Speakers: Paul LaPrade, University of Texas at El Paso, "’Workshopping
the Library’: Cultivating Information Literacy in the First-Year
Composition Class"
Consuelo Salas, University of Texas at El Paso, "‘Flipping the Library’:
Instructor/Librarian Collaboration within FYC"
Angela Lucero, The University of Texas at El Paso, "‘Flipping the
Library’: Instructor/Librarian Collaboration within FYC"
Leslie Arms, The University of Texas at El Paso, "‘Workshopping the
Library’: Cultivating Information Literacy in the First-Year
Composition Class"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.02 	 Global, Social, and Digital: Digital Tools and Strategies in
the Writing Classroom
The panelists will review strategies for encouraging student writing and
revision through online tools.

Hilton Room 327, Level Three
Chair: Elizabeth Losh, University of California, San Diego
Speakers: Amber Nichols-Buckley, University of Mississippi, "Beyond
Hashtag Activism: Moving Academic Writing into Students’ Online
Social Spheres"
Marohang Limbu, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Networked
Pedagogy: Global Writing Strategies in Action"
Philip Andrew Klobucar, New Jersey Institute of Technology, "Click and
Read: Using Computer Assisted Text Analysis Tools in the Digital
Classroom"
Karen Forgette, University of Mississippi, "Beyond Hashtag Activism:
Moving Academic Writing into Students’ Online Social Spheres"

278

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 278

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

13-Theory

M.03 	 Framing Visual Composition and Multimedia Writing

This section presents initiatives to discuss structures and implications on
visual composition and multimedia writing.

Hilton Room 328, Level Three
Chair: Kassia Shaw, Waubonsee Community College & DePaul University
Speakers: Joshua Abboud, University of Kentucky, Lexington, "Crushed
Bodies: Aftershock Rhetoric and Screened Events"
Timothy Elliott, Texas Tech, "Revisiting, Re-visioning, and Retelling an
Urban Redevelopment Project Using Visual Narratives"
Brian Ballentine, West Virginia University, "Writing Animals: A Spatial
Multimedia Project"
3-Community, Civic & Public

M.04 	 What Does It Mean for Prison Research and Teaching to
Go Public?
What does it mean for prison research and teaching to go public? Panel
addresses ethical complications from a diverse set of prison contexts.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon D, Level Two
Chair: Erika Sparby, Northern Illinois University
Speakers: Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, "No Other Argument Is
Possible"
Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, "The Romance of Prison Writing and
Public Responsibility"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY,
"Public Archives, Shared Spaces: What Happens when Incarcerated
Men Meet the ‘Incorrigible Girls’ of New York?"
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "The Challenges of
Going Public with Archival Prison Materials"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, "Sustaining Transformative
Change"
Respondent: Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 279

279

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

M.05 	 Big, Lean, Open, and Howling: Proposals for Digital
Futures

This panel proposes digital futures for our discipline, programs, and
pedagogy.

Hilton Room 329, Level Three
Chair: Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Speakers: Jordan Frith, University of North Texas, "Big Data and the
Words behind the Numbers"
Meredith Johnson, University of South Florida, "Lean Technical
Communication: Toward Sustainable Program Administration"
Caleb Milligan, University of Florida, "In Tune with Howling Dogs
and En(Twine)d with Electracy: Teaching Ergodic Rhetoric through
Nonlinear Pedagogy"
Elizabeth Chamberlain, University of Louisville, "Big, Lean, Open, and
Howling: Proposals for Digital Futures"
7-Institutional and Professional

M.06 	 Reworking Boundaries of Language and Discipline:
Translingual Theory, Second Language Writing,
Comparative Rhetorics, and Transnational Research

This roundtable examines ways to rework boundaries between SLW,
translingual theory, comparative rhetoric, and transnational scholarship.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Chair: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville
Speakers: LuMing Mao, Miami University, Ohio
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille III
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville
Jay Jordan, University of Utah
Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.07 	 Wanting Students to Succeed: Peer Conferences and
Feedback

This panel explores the importance of peer conferences and peer feedback.

Hilton Room 330, Level Three
Chair: Henrietta Wood, University of Missouri-Kansas City
Speakers: Clarissa N. West-White, Bethune-Cookman University,
Daytona Beach, FL, "P2P+1: Facilitating Peer Conferences That Build
Skill, Approachability, and Retention"

280

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 280

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Wendy Bilen, Trinity Washington University, "P2P+1: Facilitating Peer
Conferences That Build Skill, Approachability, and Retention"
Denise Comer, Duke University, Raleigh, NC, "Providing Peer Feedback
as a Site of Writing Transfer"
13-Theory

M.08 	 Preachin’, Laughin’, Theorizin’: Black Women on
Rhetoric, Language Policies, and Intimate Spaces

This presentation illustrates Black women’s rhetorical offerings through
preaching, laughter, and language appropriation.

Hilton Grand Ballroom B, Level Four
Chair: Emily Yasonia, California State University, Los Angeles
Speakers: Cona Marshall, Michigan State University, "Is God Sexist?:
Methods of Womanist Homiletic Rhetoric"
Wonderful Faison, Michigan State University, "We Ain’t Approve This:
Black Women’s Thoughts on a National Language Policy"
Ronisha Browdy, Michigan State University, ""Ain’t That the Truth":
Laughing as a Rhetorical Practice within Black Women’s Language in
Intimate Spaces"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.09 	 New Frames for Transfer: Remix, Kairos, and Noticing
Protocols for Enhancing Transfer

This panel explores contexts and genres for enhancing transfer in FYC.
Hilton Room 336A, Level Three
Chair: Toby Coley, University of Mary Hardin-Baylor
Speakers: Chris Kreiser, Slippery Rock University, PA, "All Writing Is
Writing, Right? Linking Kairos in First-Year Writing with the Tropes
of Writing in the Disciplines"
Cynthia Johnson, Miami University, "Transfer in Action: Reframing
Digital Remix Projects as Learning Transfer"
Nawwaf Alhazmi, Purdue University, "Noticing as a Necessary Condition
for Transfer"
8-Taking Action

M.10 	 Framing Circulation for Action: Frameworks for Enabling
Action via Circulation Studies
Panel presents frameworks for making circulation actionable by linking
circulation theories with our normalized experiences of circulation.

Hilton Room 335C, Level Three
Chair: Douglas Eyman, George Mason University
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 281

281

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Speakers: John Silvestri, Miami University
Layne Gordon, University of Louisville
Kellie Gray, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
13-Theory

M.11 	 Queering Assessment: Engaging Alternative Validity
Arguments

Our panel works to refocus assessment as a critical project for enhancing
student learning.

Hilton Room 343A, Level Three
Chair: William Banks, East Carolina University
Speakers: Nicole Caswell, East Carolina University, "Embracing Failure
to Disrupt Success Narratives in Writing Assessment"
Rexford Rose, East Carolina University, "Queer Validity Inquiry in the
Writing Center"
Stephanie West-Puckett, East Carolina University, Greenville, North
Carolina, "Open Badging as Participatory Digital Assessment"
Susan Spangler, Fredonia State University of New York, ""Flipping"
Assessment: Queering Discourse and Practice in Grading Student
Writing"
William Banks, East Carolina University, "Embracing Failure to Disrupt
Success Narratives in Writing Assessment"
8-Taking Action

M.12 	 Advocating for Our Missions: Writing (Our) Programs with
Integrity in Hostile Environments
Speakers will share their responses to outside pressures to change their
programs and help participants create their own strategies.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon C, Level Two
Chair: Stephen Wilhoit, University of Dayton
Speakers: Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University, "Reform Makes
Strange Bedfellows, or How One Writing Program Used Educational
Reform to Reform Course Placement"
Lauren Ingraham, Univ of TN-Chattanooga, "Keeping a University FYC
Program Viable When Community College Tuition Is Free"
Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University, "When ‘Transform’
Is a Dirty Word: Working Together to Hold on to What’s Working"
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Marathon County, "When the
System Is Broken: Effecting Change to Assess Student Readiness at
Open-Access Institutions"

282

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 282

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

8-Taking Action

M.13 	 Writing for Advocacy and Agency

This panel offers rhetorical strategies for fostering survivor agency within
the context of the justice system.

Hilton Room 337A, Level Three
Chair: Keith Vyvial, Alvin Community College
Speakers: Stephanie Larson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Trauma
Literacy and Advocacy Strategies: When Sexual Assault Policy
Obscures Victim Agency"
Maggie Shelledy, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "A
Significant and Transformative Struggle: Rhetorical Agency in the
Prison Classroom"
Melody Bowdon, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Taking Action:
Rhetoric and Child Advocacy"
Matthew Heard, University of North Texas, Denton, "Writing in the Foster
Care System"
11-Research

M.14 	 Think-Tank for Newcomers: Developing Papers and
Sessions for CCCC 2017

At this think-tank, newcomers will have an opportunity to develop ideas
for papers and sessions for CCCC 2017 under the guidance of established
scholars in the field with expertise in the various clusters in rhetoric,
composition, and communication studies.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon E, Level 2
Chair: Joonna Trapp, Emory University
14-Writing Programs

M.15 	 Writing (Center) Strategies for Action for
Underrepresented Populations

This session will critically examine the writing center’s tutoring strategies
by bringing underrepresented client populations to the fore.

Hilton Room 337B, Level Three
Chair: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston
Speakers: Aimee Jones, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Lessons
from International Students: Rethinking Tutoring Practices for
International Multilingual Writers"
Heather Lang, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Engaging Disability
in the Writing Center"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 283

283

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Karen Bilotti, Roger Williams University, "Underrepresented Students and
the Evolution of a Writing Center in Theory and Practice"
Jack M. Downs, Washington State University Spokane, "International
Students and the Idea of a Writing Center: A Narrative Case Study"
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.16 	 Creating Conditions for Action: Designing Composition
Spaces for Learning, Enculturation, and Usability

Strategic design of learning environments to address students’ usability,
participation, information poverty, and enculturation needs.

Hilton Room 338, Level Three
Chair: Lee Torda, Bridgewater State University, MA
Speakers: Nicole Guinot Varty, Wayne State University, "This Is Actually
Fun!: Meeting Student Needs for Community and Support beyond the
Classroom through a Composition Learning Community"
Ruth Boeder, Wayne State University, "When Ignorance Isn’t Bliss:
Proactively Identifying and Responding to Student Information
Poverty"
Vytautas Malesh, Wayne State University, "Digital Spaces, Video Faces:
Ethos and Discourse in the Online Classroom"
Luke Thominet, Wayne State University, "Think Like a Student: Usability
Testing to Evaluate Curriculum Design"
8-Taking Action

M.17 	 Lights, Camera, Action: Setting the Stage for
Understanding the Diverse Learning Needs of
Teachers and Students in Writing Classrooms

This panel will provide frameworks which address the needs of
non-traditional students in the writing classroom.

Hilton Room 339A, Level Three
Chair: Brian Stone, Huston Tillotson University
Speakers: Daliborka Crnkovic, The University of Texas at El Paso,
"Teachers in the Role of Non-Traditional Students: A Framework for
Preparing Teachers to Respond to Linguistically Diverse Students"
Cassandra Dulin, University of Texas at El Paso, "Frameworks for Serving
the Institutional and Programmatic Support Systems in Writing Studies
for the Non-Traditional Student in California State Universities"
Tanya Robertson, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Library Literacy: A
Framework for Addressing the Needs of a Diverse Student Population"
Melanie Salome, University of Texas at El Paso, "Education Reform
Policies in Action: The Marginalization of Diverse Student Populations
in Higher Education"

284

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 284

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

14-Writing Programs

M.19 	 Writers on the Verge: Researching Summer Transition
Programs (and Why We Should Do More of It)

Summer transition programs should be critical for rhet/comp scholarship
as most of these programs include writing instruction.

Hilton Room 342, Level Three
Chair: Sarah Read, DePaul University
Speakers: Jada Augustine, California State University, Northridge
Jens Lloyd, University of California, Irvine
Lance Langdon, University of California-Irvine
11-Research

M.20 	 Local/Regional Practices: Recovering, Translating,
and Strategic Practices from Spaces and Contexts
of Coloniality

This presentation focuses on local/regional practices, within physical or
digital contexts that reveal spaces/contexts of coloniality.

Hilton Grand Ballroom L, Level Four
Chair: Damian Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Romeo Garcia, Syracuse University, "‘The Beginning Somewhere Project’: Border(ed) Practices, Rhetoric, and Subject-Identities"
Cruz Medina, Santa Clara University, "Strategic Digital Practices and
Decolonial Epistemology"
Karrieann Soto, Syracuse University, "A Geopolitical Consideration of
Lolita Lebrón’s Rhetorics of Defiance: Tracing a Genealogy across
Oceanic Borderspaces"
Respondents: Jaime Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, SUNY
Jaime Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
12-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.21 	 Sound and Listening as Embodied Acts for Writing
Research and Pedagogy

This panel investigates the role of embodied sound and listening in writing
studies research and pedagogy.

Hilton 339B, Level Three
Speakers: Crystal VanKooten, Oakland University, "‘Should I Talk to the
Camera or to You?’: Using Video to Listen to Voices and Bodies in
Interview Research"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 285

285

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Harley Ferris, University of Louisville, "Re-sounding Feedback: The Role
of the Voice in Assessment"
Laura Feibush, University of Pittsburgh, "The Earful Body: Investigating
Pedagogies of Aurality"
Respondent: Jonathan Stone, University of Utah
3-Community, Civic & Public

M.22 	 Rhetoric and Feminist Activism

This panel presents diverse analysis of community language use to highlight the importance of incorporating feminist rhetoric and activism.

Hilton Room 340A, Level Three
Chair: Jessica Philbrook, University of Missouri
Speakers: Johanna Phelps-Hillen, University of South Florida, Tampa,
"Renegotiating the Terms of ‘Service:’ The Rhetoric of ‘Service’ in the
Engaged University"
Collette Caton, Rochester Institute of Technology, "Hit Like a Girl: The
Rhetorical Power of the DIY Ethos in Roller Derby"
Jennifer Nish, American University of Beirut, Lebanon, "Revision as a
Feminist Strategy: Composing Activist Publics on Social Networking
Sites"
Shannon Shaw, Texas State University, "I Like the Way You Move: Catcall
Rhetoric In Society"
7-Institutional and Professional

M.24 	 Getting to the Core: When FYC Moves out of the English
Department

A cross-disciplinary panel examines their collaborative efforts to develop a
new program and department, CORE, that replaces FY writing.

Hilton Room 340B, Level Three
Chair: Wendy Olson, Washington State University Vancouver
Speakers: Bethany Shepherd, Adrian College
Benjamin Dettmar, Adrian College
Linda Learman, Adrian College
Melissa Stewart, Adrian College
5-History

M.25 	 Periodicals and Activism in the 19th Century

In this presentation, speakers focus on the periodical as an archive for
activism, rhetoric, and writing instruction.

Hilton Room 333, Level Three
Chair: Katherine Fredlund, Indiana State University

286

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 286

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Speakers: Tara Propper, University of Pittburgh, "Race, Place, and Textual
Activism: Historicizing Theories of Place vis-a-vis Turn of the Century
African American Periodicals"
Kristi Richard Melancon, Mississippi College, "Industrious Men and
Noble Women: Enacting Home in the Black Press"
Katherine Fredlund, Indiana State University, "The Rhetoric of Movements:
Activist Periodicals and the Production of Collaborative Rhetorics"
2-Basic Writing

M.26 	 From Inquiry to Informed Action: "RAD" Research
and Mandatory Writing Center Visits for Developmental
Writers
A report on research exploring whether mandatory writing center visits
affect the attitudes & writing practices of developmental writers.

Hilton Room 344B, Level Three
Chair: Halle Neiderman, Kent State University
Speakers: Jennifer Scott, Shawnee State University
Cynthia Hermanson, Shawnee State University
Marc Scott, Shawnee State University
7-Institutional and Professional

M.27 	 Hearing the Forgotten Voice

This panel looks at diverse issues of language within universities.

Hilton Room 346A, Level Three
Chair: Kristin Milligan, Texas State University
Speakers: Shirley E. Faulkner-Springfield, Virginia State University,
"Framing and Claiming the Literacy Practices of Two Eighteen-YearOld African American Males who Self-Identified as Success Academic
Writers"
Erec Smith, York College of Pennsylvania, "A Cypher’s Tale: Scenes from
the Margins of Culture and Disciplinarity"
Dylan Travis, Arkansas State University, "The Translingual Approach:
Research into Writing Centers and WAC/WID Programs"
14-Writing Programs

M.28 	 Theory, Practice…Talk and Snacks: How One Faculty
Professional Learning Community Discovered Action
through Collaboration

Discussing how our Faculty Professional Learning Community in Rhetoric
and Composition has had a positive, complex impact on our department.

Hilton Room 335B, Level Three
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 287

287

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Chair: Tyreek Minor, Florida State University
Speakers: Laura Yoo, Howard Community College, "Inquiry, Deep
Learning, and Professional Partnerships: Faculty Learning
Communities Affecting Change"
Juliette Ludeker, Howard Community College, "Active Listening, Active
Sharing, Active Changing: One Faculty Learning Community’s Role in
Shifting Department Culture"
Sylvia Lee, Howard Community College, "One Action Leads to Others:
The (Unexpected) Influence of FPLC in Changing Pedagogical and
Administrative Approaches"
4-Creative Writing

M.29 	 Storytelling and Identity

This session explores narrative as an interventive tool of exploration of
traditional forms of scholarship and classroom practices.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon A, Level Two
Chair: Rebecca Manery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Mary Hedengren, University of Texas, Austin, "Teaching
Talent: Creative Writing Pedagogy in the 21st Century"
Karen Schiler, Oklahoma City University, "Strategic Transfers: Exploring
Pedagogical Metaphors in Creative Writing and Composition"
Bess Fox, Marymount University, "Personal Academic Scholarship: A
Status Update"
Marshall Kitchens, Oakland University, "Race and Storytelling"
14-Writing Programs

M.30 	 Required Writing Center Visits: Adding Numbers—and
Nuance–to the Conversation
Our panel offers both qualitative and data-driven explorations of the
complex (and contested!) issues that surround "mandatory" tutoring.

Hilton Room 336B, Level Three
Chair: Jonathan Maricle, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: M. Melissa Elston, Northwest Missouri State University,
"Data-Driven Best Practices for Mandatory Tutoring Sessions"
Liz Egan, Millsaps College, "Messaging (and Massaging) Writing Center
Requirements"
Nicholas D. Kirse, Northwest Missouri State University, "Data-Driven
Best Practices for Mandatory Tutoring Sessions"
Melody Denny, Cottey College, "Writing Studio: Directed Self-Placement
and ‘Required’ Writing Center Visits"

288

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 288

3/2/16 6:01 PM

Saturday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

8-Taking Action

M.31 	 (Transfer) Student-Centered Assessment

Brief descriptions of three models for assessing the writing of transfer
students will lead to planning for programs for specific contexts.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon F, Level Two
Chair: Anna Knutson, University of Michigan
Speakers: Benjamin Keating, University of Michigan, "Implementing
DSP for Transfer Students: A Mini Case Study"
Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, "What Transfer Students
Need"
Erin Whittig, University of Arizona, "Showing the Work: Transfer
Portfolios as an Option for Satisfying Composition Requirements"
Brad Hammer, University of North Carolina, "Portfolio Evaluation and
Assessing Preparedness"
Respondent: Naomi Silver, University of Michigan
8-Taking Action

M.32 	 Using the Assessment Story Project to Advocate for
Students and Teachers

This panel will report on NCTE’s 2015 Assessment Story Project using
examples that are relevant to college writing teachers.

Hilton Grand Ballroom A, Level Four
Chair: Peggy O’Neill, Loyola University Maryland
Speakers: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English
Darren Cambridge, National Council of Teachers of English, "Using the
Assessment Story Project to Advocate at the National Level"
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University

CCCC CONVENTION, houston 2016	

b155-299-4Cs-FINAL-2016.indd 289

289

3/7/16 3:32 PM

Saturday, 12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.

N Session: 12:30 p.m.–1:45 p.m.
N.01 	 Taking Action Plenary: Next Steps

This final session of the conference will draw on the concerns tweeted,
posted, or otherwise made visible through the convention. The panelists
and participants will consider, together, how CCCC can address these
concerns and how we can draw on strategies from the Taking Action
Workshops.

Hilton Ballroom of the Americas Salon B, Level Two
Co-Chairs: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
Joyce Locke Carter, Texas Tech University
Speakers: Jenna Fournel, National Council of Teachers of English
Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University
Glenda Eoyang, HSD Institute
Lori Shorr, Temple University
Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley Community College
Sarah Scanlon, Arkansas State Director for Bernie 2016
