MW.01	Expanding Research Voices in Online Writing Instruction:
Developing Plans, Building Projects, Finding
Collaborators


Sponsored by the Online Writing Instruction Standing Group
Participants will develop research projects in the area of online writing
instruction (OWI) and form collaborative connections with colleagues,
led by members of the OWI Standing Group. All participants should bring
laptops or tablets.

B118 & B119
Speakers: Jennifer Cunningham, Kent State University at Stark, OH
Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish, Forest Hill, MD
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma
Rich Rice, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Jason Snart, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL
Scott Warnock, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA
13-Writing Programs

MW.02	Information Literacy and Intellectual Property in Writing
Programs: Teaching Authorship, Citation, and Copyright
beyond First-Year Writing




Sponsored by the Caucus on Intellectual Property and Composition/
Communication Studies
This workshop will focus on information literacy and intellectual property
in the context of writing certificates, minors, and majors.

A107 & A108
Speakers: Dànielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University/WRAC,
East Lansing
Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi, Oxford
Jessica Reyman, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb
Jeremy Schnieder, Morningside College, Sioux City, IA

32

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 32

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

MW.03	Community Writing Mentoring Workshop


This workshop responds to the desires expressed by the hundreds of
attendees at the first Conference on Community Writing (CCW) in
October of 2015 for a hands-on opportunity for teachers, scholars, and
community organizers to dialogue with and receive mentorship and
feedback from senior scholars in community-based writing, which
includes genres such as service-learning, community-based research,
community literacy, ethnography, community publishing, advocacy, and
activist writing. It also provides an opportunity to circulate and apply the
best practices outlined in the revised CCCC Statement on CommunityEngaged Projects in Rhetoric and Composition. The CCW hopes to
establish a national mentoring network of teachers and scholars via this
workshop.

Portland Ballroom 254
Chairs: Veronica House, University of Colorado, Boulder
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA
Speakers: Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University, Jamaica Plain, MA
Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, Miami
Eli Goldblatt, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Beverly Moss, Ohio State University, Westerville
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University, Nutley, NJ
Lauren Rosenberg, New Mexico State University
Tiffany Rousculp, Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT
Erec Smith, York College of Pennsylvania, York
3-Community, Civic & Public

MW.04	Handcrafted Rhetorics: DIY and the Public Power of
Made Things


Make and circulate crafts, chat with makers from Portland (PDX), theorize
handcrafted rhetorics, and build/share DIY-infused assignments.

Portland Ballroom 251
Chair: Jason Luther, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Workshop Facilitators: Marilee Brooks-Gillies, Indiana UniversityPurdue University, Indianapolis
Frank Farmer, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Steven Hammer, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA
Danielle Koupf, Wichita State University, Wichita, KS
Kelly McElroy, Oregon State University Libraries and Press, Corvallis
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	33

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 33

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Chelsea Murdock, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Kristin Prins, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
Kristin Ravel, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Ann Shivers-McNair, University of Washington, Seattle
Martha Webber, California State University, Fullerton
Patrick Williams, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
3-Community, Civic & Public

MW.05	The Prison Next Door: What Types of Connections Do We
Want to Cultivate?


This workshop explores the connections between the university and the
prison and features the voices of the incarcerated.

E147 & E148
Chairs: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Albany,
NY
Speakers: Daniel Cleary, Lorain County Community College, Lakewood,
OH
Phyllis Hastings, Saginaw Valley State University, Saginaw, MI
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL
Kathie Klarreich, Exchange for Change, Miami, FL
Michele McCormack, Chemeketa Community College, Salem, OR
Workshop Facilitators: Kimberly Drake, Scripps College, Claremont, CA
Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Anna Plemons, Washington State University, Pullman
4-Creative Writing

MW.06	Using Digital Creative Arts to Teach Multimedia
Composing


Drawing on digital creative arts, this workshop shows participants how to
develop, implement, and assess multimodal composing projects.

C120 & C121
Workshop Facilitators: Daniel Anderson, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill
Tyler Easterbrook, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Adam Engel, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Ashley Hall, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Jason Loan, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Jennifer Ware, Wright State University, Dayton, OH

34

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 34

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

5-History

MW.07	Cultivating Archival Connections:
Building, Working, and Teaching in Archives


This workshop offers strategies for creating, processing, sharing, and
working in archival collections, in both physical and digital spaces.

E145
Chairs: Michelle Niestepski, Lasell College, Cumberland, RI
Katherine Tirabassi, Keene State College, Keene, NH
Workshop Facilitators: Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University,
San Diego, CA
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University, College Station
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, TX
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, CUNY, New York, NY
Jenna Morton-Aiken, University of Rhode Island, South Kingstown
Liza Potts, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island, South Kingstown
Pamela VanHaitsma, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
6-Information Technologies

MW.08	Foundations in Programming


This workshop will teach writing teachers to program in JavaScript. No
previous experience in programming is necessary. Participants should
bring laptops or tablets.

B112
Workshop Facilitator: Karl Stolley, Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago
7-Institutional and Professional

MW.09	Career Pathways Workshop for Rhet/Comp Graduates


This workshop, designed for grad students and faculty advisors, explores
preparation for careers both inside and outside of the university.

D137
Speakers: Daniel Bommarito, Bowling Green State University, Bowling
Green, OH
Jenae Cohn, University of California, Davis
Stacy Hartman, Modern Language Association, New York, NY
Sarah Klotz, Butte College, Oroville, CA
Carrie Leverenz, Texas Christian University, Arlington
Mary Stewart, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Indiana, PA

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	35

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 35

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

8-Language

MW.10	Engaging the Global: Challenges and Practices of the
Digital in Transnational Writing


The workshop offers pedagogical responses to challenges and practices
of the digital in transnational writing to teachers in various contexts. By
bringing together writing teacher-scholars from different national and
cultural contexts, the workshop will foreground pedagogical responses
to varied and emerging technological landscapes, challenges of teaching
cross-cultural communicative skills, and the need to foster a sense of
global citizenship in an increasingly interconnected world.

D139 & D140
Speakers: Lavinia Hirsu, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, Scotland
Keith Lloyd, Kent State University, Kent, OH
Lilian Mina, Auburn University at Montgomery, AL
Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY
Workshop Facilitators: Sara P. Alvarez, University of Louisville,
Louisville, KY
Moushumi Biswas, University of Texas at El Paso
Nils Olov Fors, People's Education Press, Beijing, China
Maria Houston, Notre Dame College, South Euclid, OH
Hem Raj Kafle, Kathmandu University, Dhulikhel, Nepal
Julia Kiernan, Kettering University, Windsor, ON, Canada
Zsuzsanna Palmer, Grand Valley State University, Howard City, MI
Jason Peters, California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo
Rich Rice, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX
Cristina Sanchez-Martin, Illinois State University, Normal
Lindsay Steiner, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
Mayada Zaki, American University in Cairo & Cairo University, Cairo,
Egypt
9-Professional and Technical Writing

MW.11	Cultivating New TPC Instructors: A Heuristic-Based
Technical and Professional Writing Pedagogy Workshop


This workshop will cultivate heuristic pedagogy for new TPC instructors
in four core focus areas.

F149
Speakers: Steve Benninghoff, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti
Teena Carnegie, Eastern Washington University, Cheney
Scott Kowalewski, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center, MI
Bill Williamson, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center, MI

36

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 36

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.12	Assessing Multimodal Writing: Cultivating Course
Contract Pedagogies for Emerging Composition Medias


A participatory workshop that explores theories and cultivates pedagogies
for contract-based assessment of new media composition projects.

F151
Speakers: Lindsey Albracht, The Graduate Center, CUNY, New York, NY
Virginia Schwarz, University of Wisconsin, Madison
Glen Southergill, Montana Tech of the University of Montana, Butte
Nicole Warwick, University of California, Santa Barbara
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

MW.13	Story-Driven Podcasting for Writing Class


The workshop invites participants to practice podcasting and imagine the
ways podcast assignments may work for their writing classes. Participants
should bring laptops or tablets.

E141
Workshop Facilitators: Rebecca Baker, Western Washington University,
Bellingham
Jeremy Cushman, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Tristan Hanson, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Michael Johnston, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Shannon Kelly, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Jenny Lara, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Maggie Nelson, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Dayna Patterson, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Nathan Smith, West Liberty, IA
Margaret Starry, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Katie Weed, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Anthony Winkler, Western Washington University, Bellingham
13-Writing Programs

MW.14	Cultivating Consensus among Teachers: Collaborative
Leadership Strategies in Writing Program Administration


This workshop focuses on the challenge of fostering consensus among
writing program faculty in a program staffed by peers. It is designed to
be informative, interactive, collaborative, and practical. Participants will
bring questions and expertise to the session and will leave with fresh ideas
to take home to try in their own programs and institutions.

Portland Ballroom 255
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	37

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 37

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

Chair: Annie Del Principe, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY,
New York, NY
Workshop Facilitators: Aryn Bartley, Lane Community College, Eugene,
OR
Jacqueline Brady, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY, New York,
NY
Melanie Burdick, Washburn University, Topeka, KS
Ron Christiansen, Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT
Rachel Ihara, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY, New York, NY
Justin Jory, Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT
Heather Lettner-Rust, Longwood University, Farmville, VA
Tim McCormack, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, Tappan, NY
Erich Werner, Westchester Community College, CUNY, New York, NY
13-Writing Programs

MW.15	Cultivating Community: Exploring the Affordances and
Limitations of Custom Publishing


This workshop explores the affordances of custom publishing and the role
that custom texts might play at participants' institutions. It is for faculty
and writing program administrators interested in developing or revising a
custom publication.

D133 & D134
Workshop Facilitators: Christopher Brown, University of Arizona,
Tucson
Eric House, University of Arizona, Tucson
Brad Jacobson, University of Arizona, Tucson
Meridith Reed, North Carolina State University, Durham
Shannon Stimpson, Pennsylvania State University, State College
Gina Szabady, Lane Community College, Eugene, OR
Madelyn Tucker, University of Arizona, Tucson
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

MW.16	Cultivating Inclusion and Integration: A Workshop for
Alternative Success Models


This workshop focuses on learning potential as an ideal method for
cultivating inclusion and writing excellence.

Portland Ballroom 253
Presenter/Speaker: Sarah Rude-Walker, Spelman College, Atlanta, GA
Workshop Facilitator: Alexandria Lockett, Spelman College, Atlanta, GA

38

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 38

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–12:30 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

MW.17	Publishing in an Independent Journal


This workshop offers targeted mentoring to scholars at any stage of their
career who wish to publish in an independent journal.

B115
Workshop Facilitators: Casey Boyle, University of Texas, Austin
James Brown, Rutgers University, Camden, NJ
Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH
Juli Parrish, University of Denver, Denver, CO
Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Chris Warnick, College of Charleston, Charleston, SC

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	39

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 39

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Half-Day Wednesday Workshops
Afternoon 1:30–5:00 p.m.
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.01	Cultivating Inclusive Multilingual Pedagogies and
Practices in Composition Work


Sponsored by the Second Language Writing Special Interest Group
This workshop provides concrete strategies for working within and across
culture and language differences in writing instruction and support.

Portland Ballroom 254
Chairs: Pisarn Bee Chamcharatsri, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque
Katherine Silvester, Indiana University, Bloomington
Emily Simnitt, University of Oregon, Eugene
Roundtable Leaders: Jennifer Eidum Zinchuk, Elon University, Elon, NC
Christina Grant, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada
Katherine Daily O'Meara, Emporia State University, Emporia, KS
Tanita Saenkhum, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Shawna Shapiro, Middlebury College, Middlebury, VT
Gail Shuck, Boise State University, Boise, ID
Steve Simpson, New Mexico Tech, Socorro
Alison Lau Stephens, University of Oregon, Eugene
Terese Thonus, University of Kansas, Lawrence
3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.02	Beyond Common Ground in a Digital Story Project:
Listening Rhetorically as a Framework to Cultivate
Change in Classrooms and on Campuses


Using digital stories and the lens of rhetorical listening, we explore ways to
communicate cross-culturally, especially in classrooms.

C120 & C121
Speaker: Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University, Valparaiso, IN
Workshop Facilitators: Kelly Belanger, Valparaiso University, Valparaiso,
IN
Gavin Johnson, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH
Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University, Bloomsburg, PA
Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University, Valparaiso, IN
Liz Wuerffel, Valparaiso University, Valparaiso, IN

40

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 40

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.03	LatinXs Taking Action In and Out of the Academy: The
Doing of Social Justice Work in Our Local Communities


This workshop seeks to cultivate community networks of social justice
and educational advocacy and will focus on cultivating critical dialogues
between these advocacy community leaders, the Latin@ Caucus, and
scholars wanting to expand their understanding of the intricacies of social
justice work.

D137
Chair: Raúl Sánchez, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL
Speakers: Sara P. Alvarez, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY
Maria Carvajal, University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign
Christina Cedillo, University of Houston, Clear Lake, TX
Romeo Garcia, Syracuse University, Liverpool, NY
Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of Texas, Rio Grande Valley
Laura Gonzales, University of Texas at El Paso
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Kendall Leon, California State University, Chico, CA
Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University, San Marcos
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University, San Marcos
Christopher Ramirez, University of California, Merced
Iris Ruiz, University of California, Merced
Helen Sandoval, University of California, Merced
3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.04	Cultivating Change through Counter Public Writing
Pedagogy


This is a pedagogy design workshop designed to help instructors identify
features of counter public writing and develop strategies for teaching it
effectively.

E147 & E148
Speakers: Chase Bollig, Gonzaga University, Spokane, WA
Scott Lunsford, James Madison University, Weyers Cave, VA
Phyllis Ryder, George Washington University, Washington, DC
Jerry Stinnett, Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, PA

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	41

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 41

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

AW.05	Austerity, Labor Conditions, and Academic Freedom in
Higher Education: Leveraging Writing for Democratic
Work in Public Spheres


Writing Democracy 2017 works to identify ways to leverage writing for
democratic action in public spheres.

D139 & D140
Chairs: Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, McKinney,
TX
Jennifer Clifton, University of Texas at El Paso
Elenore Long, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY
Speakers: Chowaing Belekeh, University of Texas at El Paso
Dawn Fels, University of Pittsburgh
Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA
Lucie Moussu, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada
Jessica Philbrook, Walden University, St. Louis Park, MN
Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri-Columbia
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, New York, NY
John Trimbur, Emerson College, Cranston, RI
Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington
Roundtable Leaders: Marc Bousquet, Emory University, Atlanta, GA
Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe
6-Information Technologies

AW.06	Cultivating and Sustaining Social Media Analytics for
Writing and Research


This workshop prepares participants to use social media analytics to
improve their writing pedagogy, their research, and their institution.

Portland Ballroom 253
Speakers: Nathan Carpenter, Illinois State University, Normal
Angela Cirucci, Kutztown University, Kutztown, PA
Moe Folk, Kutztown University, Kutztown, PA
Keith Massie, Kutztown University, Kutztown, PA

42

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 42

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

AW.07	Defining, Locating, and Addressing Bullying in the WPA
Workplace


Facilitators lead activities on multiple ways of identifying, defining, and
addressing bullying in the WPA workplace.

E141
Speakers: Sarah Allen, University of Hawai'i , Honolulu
Andrea Dardello, Frederick Community College, Frederick, MD
Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Dawn Fels, Pittsburgh, PA
Amy Heckathorn, California State University, Sacramento
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Erec Smith, York College of Pennsylvania, York
Workshop Facilitators: Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque
Cristyn Elder, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
8-Language

AW.08	Access and Justice for Linguistically Marginalized
Communities of Color: Moving beyond the Rhetoric
of Cultivating Capacity and Creating Change



Sponsored by the Language Policy Committee
This workshop will provide a historical to contemporary perspective about
how our discipline has addressed linguistic and racial violence.

Portland Ballroom 251
Workshop Facilitators: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso
April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Kim Brian Lovejoy, Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis, IN
Rashidah Jaami` Muhammad, Governors State University, University
Park, IL
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University, San Marcos
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Denise Troutman, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Bonnie Williams, California State University, Fullerton

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	43

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 43

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

9-Professional and Technical Writing

AW.09	Rethinking Technical, Professional, and STEM Writing
Pedagogy through Writing about Writing


Workshop participants will reimagine and innovate courses in STEM and
professional writing through the lens of writing about writing.

F151
Speakers: Joy Arbor, Kettering University, Flint, MI
Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Michael Michaud, Rhode Island College, North Kingstown
Laurie Pinkert, University of Central Florida, Sanford
Sarah Read, DePaul University, Chicago, IL
10-Research

AW.10	Making [Institutional] Ethnography Our Own: Uncovering
"How Things Happen" in Writing Program Contexts


This is an interactive workshop for both novice and experienced
ethnographers on the animating theories/heuristics and uses of institutional
ethnography. Participants will work in groups to discuss designing IE
projects, begin or troubleshoot their own projects, and share thoughts on
how IE answers to writing studies' exigencies.

F149
Speakers: Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
Michelle Miley, Montana State University, Bozeman
Melissa Nicolas, University of Nevada, Reno
Katherine Daily O'Meara, Emporia State University, Emporia, KS
Jennifer Eidum Zinchuk, Elon University, Elon, NC
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.11	Challenging Participatory Norms, Creating Change:
Approaches and Applications for Rethinking Participation
in and beyond the Writing Classroom


This workshop confronts the common fear that students' lack of vocal or
visible participation indicates lack of learning. Instead, aligning with the
2017 Convention theme, workshop leaders ask writing instructors and
administrators to cultivate more inclusive and innovative approaches,
challenging and changing the landscape of participation in and beyond the
writing classroom.

E145
Workshop Facilitators: Paige Banaji, Barry University, Pembroke Pines,
FL

44

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 44

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Kelly Bradbury, University of Colorado, Boulder
Elizabeth Brewer, Central Connecticut State University, New Britain
Kathryn Comer, Barry University, Miami Shores, FL
Matthew Cox, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Katherine DeLuca, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
Lynn Lewis, Oklahoma State University, Edmond
Ryan Omizo, University of Rhode Island, Kingston
Jason Palmeri, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Lauren Terbrock, Saint Louis University, Saint Louis, MO
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.12	Engaging Disability and Accessibility in Class
Assignments: Integrating Disability Studies in the Fabric
of Comp and Technical Communication Curriculum


Twelve experts in small, interactive groups train composition and
professional writing instructors to design disability- and accessibilityfocused assignments.

A107 & A108
Chairs: Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, Tacoma
John Wafer, University of Miami, Miami, FL
Speakers: Diane Quaglia Beltran, Clemson University, Clemson, SC
Patricia Dunn, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY
John Grant, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Indiana, PA
Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, CUNY, Lawrenceville, NJ
Elisabeth Miller, University of Nevada, Reno
Kathryn Northcut, Missouri S&T, Rolla, MO
Ruth Osorio, University of Maryland, College Park
Bonnie Tucker, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Stephanie Wheeler, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Kelly Whitney, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Brooke Willock, University of Arizona, Tucson
Sean Zdenek, Texas Tech University, Lubbock, Ransom Canyon

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	45

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 45

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

AW.13	Writing for the Mountains: Using Place-Based Writing in
the Classroom


This workshop, sponsored by the Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and
Literacy Special Interest Group, focuses on the benefits of using placebased learning in writing classrooms.

B115
Speakers: Emma Howes, Coastal Carolina University, Myrtle Beach, SC
Travis Rountree, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY
Nathan Shepley, University of Houston, Houston, TX
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, IN
Workshop Facilitators: Emma Howes, Coastal Carolina University,
Myrtle Beach, SC
Travis Rountree, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, IN
13-Writing Programs

AW.14	Retention, Persistence, and Writing Programs:
Supporting Student Success


This workshop will engage participants in conversation about the role
writing programs can play in university efforts to retain students.

B112
Speakers: Beth Brunk-Chavez, University of Texas at El Paso
Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College, Chicago, IL
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Roundtable Leaders: Matthew Bridgewater, Woodbury University, Santa
Clarita, CA
Beth Buyserie, Washington State University, Pullman
Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb
Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, Pullman
Anna Plemons, Washington State University, Pullman
Marc Scott, Shawnee State University, Portsmouth, OH
Robin Snead, University of North Carolina at Pembroke
Susan Wolff Murphy, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi, TX
Sarah Snyder, Arizona State University, Tempe

46

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 46

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

AW.15	Writing, Making, Cultivating, Doing: An Indigenous
Pedagogy Giveaway


This workshop, sponsored by the Caucus for American Indian Scholars
and Scholarship, presents indigenous methods of land-based pedagogy, TA
training, and administrative conversations.

D133 & D134
Speakers: Yavanna Brownlee, Ohio University, Athens
Ezekiel Choffel, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg, MO
Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN
Gail MacKay, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, Brockton, MA
Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green,
OH
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

AW.16	Beyond Professional and Technical Writing: Practicing
Usability Testing in Composition


This workshop provides an overview of usability testing. Participants will
apply this information to their own materials and classrooms.

B118 & B119
Workshop Facilitators: Joseph Bartolotta, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque
Dev Bose, Iowa State University, Ames
Angelia Giannone, University of Arizona, Tucson
Antonnet Johnson, University of Arizona, Tucson
Marijel (Maggie) Melo, University of Arizona, Tucson
Angelia Giannone, University of Arizona, Tucson
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

AW.17	Cultivating Interdisciplinary Relationships: Incorporating
Information Literacy in Writing Classrooms, Writing
Programs, and Across the Curriculum


This workshop engages participants in the cross-disciplinary cultivation of
information literacy in the writing classroom.

Portland Ballroom 255
Speakers: Leslie Arms, University of Texas at El Paso
Daisy Benson, University of Vermont, Burlington
Emily Crist, University of Vermont, Burlington
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	47

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 47

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 1:30 p.m.–5:00 p.m.

Paul LaPrade, University of Texas at El Paso
Angela Lucero, University of Texas at El Paso
Libby Miles, University of Vermont, Burlington
Consuelo Salas, University of Texas at El Paso
Ernie Tsacalis, San Antonio College, San Antonio, TX

48

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 48

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

All-Day Wednesday Workshops
9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.
3-Community, Civic & Public

W.01	 Feminist Workshop: Intersectionality within Writing
Programs and Practices



Sponsored by the Standing Group on the Status of Women in the Profession
This workshop explores intersectional feminism(s) and social justice in
teaching, administrative work, and rhetorical practices.

F152
Chair: April Conway, Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green,
OH
Speakers: Lauren Connolly, Lewis-Clark State College, Lewiston, ID
Tasha Golden, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY
Nicole Gonzales Howell, University of San Francisco, San Francisco, CA
Nicole Khoury, University of Illinois, Chicago
Lydia McDermott, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA
Jennifer Nish, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon
Ersula Ore, Arizona State University, Tempe
Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson
Karrieann Soto, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Patty Wilde, Washington State University, Tri-Cities, Portland, OR
Tara Wood, Rockford University, Poplar Grove, IL
10-Research

W.02	 Cultivating Research Capacity through International
Exchanges about Higher Education Writing Research


Sponsored by the International Researchers' Consortium Standing Group
This is the International Researchers' Consortium Standing Group
workshop. Researchers from 24 countries share drafts in advance and
have extended dialogue in small groups for deep exchange about writing
research.

A105
Chairs: Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, and Université
de Lille III, Villeneuve-d'Ascq, France
Cinthia Gannett, Fairfield University, Fairfield, CT
Workshop Facilitators: Rula Baalbaki, American University of Beirut,
Beirut, Lebanon
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	49

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 49

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Washington, Seattle
Yue Chen, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Vera Cristovão, Universidade Estadual de Londrina (UEL), Londrina,
Paraná, Brazil
Lance Cummings, University of North Carolina, Wilmington
Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University, South Orange, NJ
Yinyin Du, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, Guangzhou,
Guangdong, China
Lisa Emerson, Massey University, Palmerston North, New Zealand
Tyler Evans-Tokaryk, University of Toronto, Mississauga, Canada
Paula Abboud Habre, Lebanese American University, Beirut, Lebanon
Andrew Johnson, Monash University, Caulfield East, Victoria, Australia
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Xinfang Liu, Suzhou University of Science and Technology, Suzhou,
Jiangsu, China
Jennifer Lopera, Universidad del Rosario, Bogotá, Colombia
Shurli Makmillen, Claflin University, Orangeburg, SC
Maria Ester Moritz, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianópolis
SC, Brazil
Elizabeth Narváez-Cardona, Universidad Autónoma de Occidente, Cali,
Colombia
Raffaella Negretti, Chalmers Technical University, Göteborg, Sweden
Lucy Rai, The Open University, Milton Keynes, England
Michelle Riedlinger, University of the Fraser Valley
Lynne Ronesi, American University of Sharjah, Sharjah, United Arab
Emirates
Andrea Scott, Pitzer College, Claremont, CA
Kirk St. Amant, Louisiana Tech University, Ruston
Brian Stone, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona
Katja Thieme, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
Belinda Walzer, Northeastern University, Brighton, MA
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Margaret Willard-Traub, University of Michigan, Dearborn
Juheina Fakhreddine Yakzan, American University of Beirut, Beirut,
Lebanon
Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida, Orlando

50

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 50

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

4-Creative Writing

W.03	 Cultivating Our Creative Capacities: Writing Teachers
Writing


Sponsored by the Creative Nonfiction Special Interest Group
Participants will explore creative nonfiction through writing prompts and
discussing teaching strategies and issues.

A104
Speakers: Lynn Z. Bloom, University of Connecticut, Storrs
Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph's University, Merion Station, PA
Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, Berea, KY
Jacquelyne Kibler, Arizona State University, Tucson
Sandee McGlaun, Roanoke College, Salem, VA
Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT
Wendy Ryden, Long Island University, Brookville, NY
Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph's University, Philadelphia, PA
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

W.04	 TYCA Presents Cultivating Our Capacity: Preparation
and Professional Development for Teachers of English at
Two-Year Colleges


Sponsored by the Two-Year College English Association
This workshop will provide the knowledge and tools to build meaningful
and research-based professional development into the structure and
culture of participants' departments and institutions. With an emphasis on
the unique demands of two-year colleges, speakers and facilitators will
take participants through the steps of designing, building, and sustaining
professional growth.

Portland Ballroom 252
Speakers: Brett Megan Griffiths, Macomb Community College, Warren,
MI
Darin Jensen, University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Brian Lewis, Century College, White Bear Lake, MN
Amy Patterson, Moraine Park Technical College, Beaver Dam, WI
Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College, Alexandra
Joshua Stokdyk, Madison Area Technical College, Madison, WI
Christie Toth, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Workshop Facilitators: Sarah Z. Johnson, Madison Area Technical
College, Madison, WI
Suzanne Labadie, Oakland Community College, Royal Oak, MI
Stephanie Maenhardt, Salt Lake Community College, Salt Lake City, UT

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	51

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 51

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

W.05	 Rhetorics and Realities: Exploring New Potentials for
Scholarly Production to Transform the Meaning of
Scholarship (and the Meaning of Meaning within Our
Field)



Sponsored by NCTE's Studies in Writing and Rhetoric book series
This workshop offers both presentations and hands-on training in new
publishing platforms. It is designed to create a space for participants to
discuss the issues/concerns that need to be addressed into our scholarly
publications as well as provide them with the opportunity to learn about
as well as to experiment with building alternative forms of scholarly
production.

B113
Chair: Stephen Parks, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Speakers: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, Pullman, WA
Elizabeth Brewer, Central Connecticut State University, New Britain
Romeo Garcia, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Crystal Hendricks, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Brett Keegan, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Jason Markins, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY
Tamera Marko, Emerson College, Boston, MA
Jacqueline Rhodes, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Melanie Yergeau, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
6-Information Technologies

W.06	 High Touch Tech: Using Web-Based Tools to Cultivate
Student Inclusion and Self-Efficacy in the Composition
Classroom


This hands-on workshop provides an open, supportive, and playful space
for compositionists who would like to learn how to work with digital
teaching tools but are unsure of how to get started. Participants are
encouraged to bring laptops or tablets.

B116
Workshop Facilitators: Stacey Anderson, California State University,
Channel Islands
Rachael Jordan, California State University, Channel Islands
Clifton Justice, California State University, Channel Islands
Kim Vose, California State University, Channel Islands

52

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 52

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

W.07	 Implementing Long-Term Changes to Basic Writing
Programs in Local Contexts



Sponsored by the Council on Basic Writing
This workshop will engage participants with strategies and models
intended to facilitate long-term changes to basic writing (BW) curricula.

C123
Chairs: Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University, Madison, NJ
Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Dearborn, MI
Speakers: Paul Beilstein, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Bethany Davila, University of New Mexico, Corrales
Cristyn Elder University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Evin Groundwater, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Joe Harris, University of Delaware, Newark
Allison Kranek, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Kristi McDuffie, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
Workshop Facilitators: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University,
Tempe
J. Elizabeth Clark, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY, New York, NY
Barbara Gleason, City College of New York, New York, NY
Sugie Goen-Salter, San Francisco State University, San Francisco, CA
Marisa Klages, LaGuardia Community College, CUNY, New York, NY
Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort
Wayne, IN
7-Institutional and Professional

W.08	 Moving Labor Advocacy from Conversations to Action


This workshop engages participants in several avenues for moving the
labor conversation in higher education forward via strategic action.

C124
Speakers: Janelle Adsit, Humboldt State University, Arcata, CA
Natalie Barnes, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
Seth Kahn, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester
Lydia Page, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
James Walsh, University of Colorado, Denver
Workshop Facilitator: Sarah Austin, Texas Tech University, Lubbock

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	53

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 53

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

10-Research

W.09	 Cultivating Sustainable Writing Assessments


This workshop helps faculty learn to use writing assessment theory and
practice to design effective, sustainable writing assessments.

F150
Workshop Facilitators: Nicole Caswell, East Carolina University,
Greenville, NC
Curt Greve, Kent State University, Kent, OH
Melody Gustafson, Kent State University, Kent, OH
Brian Huot, Kent State University, Kent, OH
Elliot Knowles, Kent State University, Kent, OH
William Morris, Kent State University, Kent, OH
Jamie Peterson, Kent State University, Kent, OH
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

W.10	 Cultivating Capacities, Creating Change: Teachers as
Activists and Videomakers


This hands-on workshop covers the basics of filmmaking/videomaking
and how to integrate and develop multimedia and critical pedagogy in the
classroom. Participants should bring laptops and a camera or smartphone.

B114
Workshop Facilitators: Crystal Bickford, Southern New Hampshire University, Manchester
Kefaya Diab, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
Theresa Donovan, University of Texas at El Paso
Gwen Gray Schwartz, University of Mount Union, Alliance, OH
Lynda Haas, University of California, Irvine
Laurie McMillan, Pace University, Pleasantville, NY
Megan Palmer, Southern New Hampshire University, Manchester
Patricia Portanova, Northern Essex Community College, Haverhill, MA
Anthony Stagliano, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces

54

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 54

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

W.11	 Cultivating Vernacular Eloquence: A Workshop on
Speech and Writing Honoring Peter Elbow


Sponsored by the Assembly for Expanded Perspectives on Learning
This workshop explores how practices of speech can enhance writing instruction and practice. Peter Elbow will join the workshop as a participant
and respondent.

D135
Chair: Nate Mickelson, Guttman Community College, CUNY, New York,
NY
Speakers: Kathleen Cassity, Hawai'i Pacific University, Honolulu
Michelle Comstock, University of Colorado, Denver
Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Mary Hocks, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Nate Mickelson, Guttman Community College, CUNY, New York, NY
Bruce Novak, The Foundation for Ethics and Meaning, Indiana, PA
Nan Phifer, Oregon Writing Project, University of Oregon, Eugene
Airlie Rose, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
Betty Spence, DeSoto Center, Northwest Mississippi Community College,
Southaven, MS
Eleni Stecopoulos, University of San Francisco, San Francisco, CA
13-Writing Programs

W.12	 Launching and Developing Sustainable Writing across the
Curriculum/Writing in the Disciplines Programs


In this workshop, participants will develop strategies for creating and
revitalizing WAC/WID programs based on whole-systems theory.

D136
Speakers: Michelle Cox, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
Jeffrey Galin, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton
Dan Melzer, University of California, Davis
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

W.13	 Leadership in Action: A Workshop for Heads, Directors,
WPAs, and Future Faculty Leaders


This workshop combines self-reflections on leadership, hands-on sessions
on participants' projects, and reviews of research on leadership.

E146
Speakers: Anita August, Sacred Heart University, Fairfield, CT
Brenda Brueggemann, University of Connecticut, Storrs
Jane Detweiler, University of Nevada, Reno
Patti Wojahn, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	55

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 55

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 7:30 a.m.–6:30 p.m.

Thursday, March 16
Special Events and Meetings

All sessions and events are located in the Oregon Convention Center
unless otherwise noted.

Newcomers' Coffee Hour
Portland Ballroom 252
7:30 a.m.–8:15 a.m.
Opening General Session
Oregon Ballroom 203 & 204
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.
Nominating Committee Meeting (open)
Room C128
10:30 a.m.–12:30 p.m.
Resolutions Committee Meeting (open)
Room C128
5:30 p.m.–6:30 p.m.

56

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 56

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 6:00–10:00 p.m.

Scholars for the Dream Reception
Portland Ballroom 253
6:00 p.m.–7:00 p.m.
Anzaldúa Awards Reception
Portland Ballroom 252
7:00 p.m.–8:00 p.m.
AA and Al-Anon Meeting Space
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
Meeting space is set aside for those who desire to have an AA or Al-Anon meeting.
AA, Room D133
Al-Anon, Room D134

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	57

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 57

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Opening General Session
		Oregon Ballroom 203 & 204


8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Presiding: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair,
Yakima Valley College, WA
Greetings: Hildy Miller, Portland State University, and Chris Nelson, Oregon State
University, Local Arrangements Co-Chairs
Susan Houser, NCTE President, St. Petersburg, FL
Jeffrey Andelora, TYCA Chair, Mesa Community College, AZ

Scholars for the Dream—2017 Recipients

Maryam S. Alikhani, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, NY
Candace Chambers, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa
Nina Feng, University of Utah, Salt Lake City
Michelle Grue, University of California, Santa Barbara
Logan Middleton, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Alejandra Irene Ramírez, University of Arizona, Tucson
Ella Dali Raynor, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Elijah Simmons, Miami University, Oxford, OH
Alison Lau Stephens, University of Oregon, Eugene
Mark Daniel Triana, Washington State University, Pullman
For a listing of previous Scholars for the Dream recipients, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/scholarsforthedream.

Scholars for the Dream Travel Award Committee

Chair: April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Iris Ruiz, University of California, Merced
Robyn Tasaka, University of Hawai'i-West O'ahu
To increase the participation of traditionally underrepresented groups—African
Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans and other Latino
and Latina Americans, and American Indians—CCCC has established the Scholars
for the Dream Travel Awards. The awards celebrate the scholarly contributions of
first-time presenters at CCCC who are members of these groups. By providing some
funding for these scholars to travel to the conference and to share their work with us,
we hope to make the term "underrepresented" past history.

58

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 58

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Chairs' Memorial Scholarship—2017 Recipients
Sara P. Alvarez, University of Louisville, KY
Janine Butler, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Megan Faver Hartline, University of Louisville, KY
Brittany S. Hull, Indiana University of Pennsylvania

Chairs' Memorial Scholarship Award Committee
Chair: Beverly Moss, The Ohio State University, Columbus
John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, IN
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Victor Villanueva, Washington State University, Pullman

To remember and honor the Chairs of CCCC who have passed away, the CCCC
Executive Committee has created scholarships of $750 each to help cover the costs
of four graduate students who are presenting at the annual conference. Full-time
graduate students whose presentations were selected through the regular peer review
process are eligible for these scholarships.
For a listing of previous Chairs' Memorial Scholarship Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/chairsscholarship.

Presentation of the Exemplar Award

This award is presented to a person who has served or serves as an exemplar of our
organization, representing the highest ideals of scholarship, teaching, and service to
the entire profession.
Deborah Brandt, recipient of the 2017 CCCC Exemplar Award, will speak.
Exemplar Award Committee
Chair: Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, Tempe
Arnetha Ball, Stanford University, CA
Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Jaime Armin Mejia, Texas State University, San Marcos
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, NY
For a listing of previous Exemplar Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/exemplar.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	59

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 59

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Deborah L. Brandt, 2017 Exemplar
of the Conference on College
Composition and Communication
Deborah Brandt tackles huge and complex issues with
brilliance. She is among the very, very best writers and
thinkers in the field. She is an exemplar of careful, meticulous, consequential research.—Mike Rose
Deborah L. Brandt exemplifies the standards that we expect for recipients of the CCCC Exemplar Award. Since
the 1980s, Deborah Brandt's scholarship has not only
been of the highest quality but has fully embodied the
values of the CCCC with a commitment to students, a reDeborah Brandt
sponsiveness to the social complexity of their lives, and
an engagement in providing supports for literacy learning that would advance them as individuals and society as a whole. She has consistently produced work that has been at the forefront of enhancing our view of what
constitutes literacy and advancing our understanding of its complex interconnections
to social, cultural, and political life.
Now Professor Emerita of English at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Deborah
Brandt is the author of four widely cited books, including her first book, Literacy
as Involvement: The Acts of Writers, Readers, and Texts (1990), for which she was
awarded the David H. Russell Award for Distinguished Research. Her second book,
Literacy in American Lives (2001), earned the Grawemeyer Award in Education,
the CCCC Outstanding Book Award, and the MLA Mina P. Shaughnessy Prize. Her
most recent book, The Rise of Writing: Redefining Mass Literacy (2015), completed
with the support of a Guggenheim Fellowship, received the 2017 Mina Shaughnessy
Prize. In honor and support of this work, Dr. Brandt has held fellowships from the
Guggenheim Foundation, the American Council of Learned Societies, and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
Over the last 30 years, as our field has witnessed great shifts in how those who come
from diverse contexts are represented, Brandt has been at the heart of this important
change. Her concept of "sponsors of literacy," the ways that literacy is supported by
powerful material and personal connections, is a threshold concept in our field. Her
influence has extended well beyond the borders of our field, as her work has been
cited in education and policy studies, print culture and the history of the book, applied linguistics, anthropology, the sociology of education, and information studies.
Indeed, her impact has extended beyond the borders of our nation as her work has
been highly influential in applied linguistics in Europe, which resulted in an Honor-

60

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 60

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

ary Doctorate from Umea University in Sweden. Those who know her know that she
accomplished such recognition without a hint of self-promotion or self-aggrandizement.
By looking carefully at what readers and writers actually do, Literacy as Involvement
offered a clear challenge to the "great divide" view of literacy still dominant in the
1990s. Literacy in American Lives grew out of this earlier theorizing and research,
adding methodologically sound and innovative investigation that gave clarity to an
issue that was at best hazily understood: how literacy experiences grow out of the
conditions of one's life and life opportunities—and how those were in turn shaped by
larger historical, social, and economic forces. It changed and refocused our thinking
through writing that is elegant and persuasive, deeply grounded in the empirical materials she carefully aggregated. The 2015 follow-up The Rise of Writing reveals how
changing technological, historical, and economic forces have added to the pervasiveness of writing and provided new configurations of writing activity and motives,
indicating how deeply writing has entered into the identities of people throughout
the workplace and social life and providing an increased warrant and a direction to
ourselves and others for why we do what we do as teachers of writing.
As a teacher, Deborah Brandt has built a distinctive record of cultivating young
scholars who have gone on to make significant contributions to scholarship, teaching, and service. At the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where she was instrumental in building the composition and rhetoric graduate program, she has had a reputation for fairness and equity and for being both attentive and accountable to matters
related to diversity and social justice. She has been a critical factor in the preparation
of graduate students of color, having mentored them as they charted career paths
in our areas—with several competing successfully for the CCCC Scholars for the
Dream Award.
A letter written by her former students describes her as "both demanding and generous. She could often find the one small sparkling gem of brilliance in an otherwise
twisted argument, giving new life to a struggling research trajectory. She shared her
sense of wonder at literacy with her students, exploring our research sites vicariously
through us, pushing us to sharpen our insights, make them speak to larger theoretical
concerns, at the same time as holding us accountable to the real lives, and real challenges, of those whom we studied."
Brandt's contribution to the field is also evident in the role she has played in calling
attention to the work of others. She has served on the editorial boards of all the major
journals in our field, on the editorial board of a book series, and on a variety of selection committees. As coeditor of Written Communication for nearly a decade, she has
played a critical role in bringing to the attention of the profession some of our most
innovative research and scholarship and thereby ensuring the scholarly foundations
of our profession.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	61

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 61

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

Her service to the discipline is wide ranging, from national lobbying for writing studies and national service crossing composition and rhetoric organizations and publications, to campus and community service that has made significant interventions and
left a lasting impact. As a member of the Steering Committee for the United States
Department of Education's National Center for English Learning and Achievement,
she was a powerful informant and fierce advocate for writing studies among policymakers and various English Studies professionals.
Her service to our profession also reaches deeply and meaningfully into Madison,
Wisconsin, the community where she worked and lived for nearly 30 years. At the
University of Wisconsin-Madison, she worked for decades in support of important
and varied initiatives for diversity, equity, and social justice across the campus. In
the University of Wisconsin Hmong Literacy, Language, and Jobs Project, she led a
group of her graduate students in providing one-on-one writing instruction and tutoring to members of Madison's Hmong community who were seeking or sustaining
employment. She served on the City of Madison Affirmative Action Commission
and the Education Committee of the Madison Branch of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People, demonstrating that she does not simply talk
about social justice, equity, and access; she consistently does the work regardless of
whether or not anyone is looking.
The duration and excellence of Deborah Brandt's contributions to the scholarship,
teaching, and service that sustain CCCC and the profession it represents have earned
her selection as the 2017 CCCC Exemplar.

62

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 62

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

		Chair's Address
		Oregon Ballroom 203 & 204


8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m.

Because Writing Is Never Just Writing
For CCCC 2016, I invited everyone in attendance to be
part of telling a story: about our foundational values and
principles, about how we act on them (and how we might
like to act on them differently), about how we might build
alliances with others from them. I suggested that telling
this story, based on our values and principles, would be
important as we shape conditions for writing and writers
to flourish.
In this talk, I'll build on the foundation that we started
to lay together at CCCC 2016, considering some of the
issues that we face. But my call here will be a bit more urgent, focusing not just on how we might develop strategies to tell and change stories,
but why we must. This call will be located around the talk's central theme: writing
is never just writing.
Linda Adler-Kassner

Consider a concern that writing teachers, tutors, administrators, and students often
hear: "My students can't write." This is often followed by a lament about what the
speaker perceives to be students' inability to produce a representation of their knowledge that, from the perspective of the speaker, is straightforward and "obvious."
The statement and the perspective reflect a belief that writing is one thing, it is "just
writing."
As writing professionals—instructors, consultants, tutors, students, administrators—
we know that writing is so much more. It's a strategy that can be used for learning, a
way of negotiating identities within and around specific contexts, a representation of
ideas, a way of participating in ideologies, a strategy for movement, a way of understanding. We build on these understandings of writing as we work with writers every
day in classrooms, writing centers, community sites. We build on them as we work
with faculty colleagues—even (especially) those who complain that students "can't
write"—to use writing as a strategy for learning and exploration. All of these uses of
writing make the point: writing is never just writing.
But as we work with students and colleagues, in classrooms and communities, at the
local level, we also live in a broader climate that is shaped by the Educational Intelligence Complex (or EIC), a loosely aligned group of NGOs, funders, policies. The

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	63

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 63

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 8:30–10:00 a.m.

EIC is motivated by a story about The Problem with American Education and How to
Fix It. The problem, as they tell it, is teachers, curricula, and the educational system;
the consequence of the problem is the potential downfall of the American economy;
the fix comes from practices imported from businesses and industries that may suffer
if The Problem continues.
The EIC's initiatives are many. They are well funded, well promoted, and embraced
by those who speak with loud voices. They are reflected in commonly used terminology: continuous improvement. Learning outcomes. Comparative data. They are captured in so-called "disruptions": MOOCs, reductive competency-based programs,
self-paced learning. They are embodied in some data-motivated efforts: predictive
analytics, data mining, data dashboards. Through the story told by the EIC, these
initiatives can have serious consequences for the things that we care about most:
writers, writing, the ways in which we know that writing is never just writing. But:
there also might be potential there.
Our challenge, then, is to work from the idea that writing is never just writing within
the age of the EIC—and maybe even to reshape its story. We can do so by working
from our disciplinary identity, one that exists at the intersection of focus, expert
knowledge, and a particular kind of responsibility.
These are the issues I'll consider in this talk: how working through the idea that writing is never just writing, an idea that embodies our disciplinary identity, can help us
to navigate through the EIC and its story about learning. To take up these (complicated!) questions, I'll use some of the EIC's artifacts as illustrations, considering their
implications for learning and for writers. I'll then consider how taking systematic,
strategic action through our disciplinary identity can make a difference.
Linda Adler-Kassner is Professor of Writing Studies and Interim Dean of Undergraduate Education at the University of California, Santa Barbara. She directed the
UCSB Writing Program from 2010 to 2015; she then became associate dean of Undergraduate Education, a position to which she will return in July 2017. In this capacity, she works with faculty and students across UCSB's campus on questions related
to teaching, learning, and assessment.
Always focusing on study of and practice with writing, Adler-Kassner teaches courses on writing and civic engagement, writing and public policy, assessment of writing,
and—of course—first-year writing. She also leads seminars for faculty members on
making threshold concepts of their disciplines more explicit in teaching, and courses
for students on navigating the university (often through threshold concepts). She was
thrilled to receive the UCSB Distinguished Teaching Award in 2015.
Adler-Kassner is author, coauthor, or coeditor of nine books and many articles and
book chapters. Her most recent book, coedited with Elizabeth Wardle and bringing
together the work of twenty-nine colleagues in the field, is Naming What We Know:

64

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 64

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Threshold Concepts in Writing Studies. Naming What We Know was honored by the
Council of Writing Program Administrators for Outstanding Contribution to the Discipline. Adler-Kassner is also author of The Activist WPA: Changing Stories about
Writing and Writers, which won the CWPA Best Book Award.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	65

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 65

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

A Sessions: 10:30–11:45 a.m.
Poster Session
Undergraduate Researcher Poster Session
Lobby Space outside Portland Ballroom 251 & 252
This session will showcase the work of more than two dozen students from
across the United States who have been engaged in research on writing. They
will be presenting their posters on Thursday, March 16, 10:30 a.m.–11:45 a.m.
Posters may be on display throughout the Convention.
Chair: Jessie Moore, Elon University

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
A.01 	 Career Quest: Navigating a Future in Composition,
Rhetoric, and Writing Studies


This interactive Cultivate session is designed for newcomers and
early career attendees. Its goal is to help participants develop a plan in
which opportunities at the conference and within the organization can
play an important part in their career development. Participants will
engage in activities designed to clarify their career goals and will have
the opportunity to hear brief presentations about a range of career
options available to them. Afterward, participants will be invited to
visit various stations, each representing a different career path, to learn
more about the careers they envision in their professional futures.
At the end of the session, participants will design a plan for the 2017
conference, as well as a broader plan for engagement with future
conferences and with what the organization offers.

Portland Ballroom 256
Chair: Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College
Facilitators: Tamika Carey, University at Albany, SUNY, "Turning
Social Commitments into Action"
Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman, "Writing Center
Administration"
Libby Falk Jones, Berea College, "Teaching Writing as a Generalist or
Literature Professor"
Erika Lindemann, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
"Research"

66

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 66

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Aja Martinez, Binghamton University–State University of New York,
"Teaching at a Research University"
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College, "Teaching at a Two-Year College"
Malea Powell, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "CCCC
Leadership"
Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College, "Writing Facilitator"
Duane Roen, Arizona State University, "Writing Program
Administration"
Leslie Werden, Morningside College, "Teaching at a Small, Four-Year
College"
Think Tank on Supporting Queer Scholars

A.02	 Queering Our Spaces: Cultivating Institutional Support
for Queer/LGBTQ+ Composition Scholars


This session focuses on cultivating institutional support for
LGBTQIAP+ compositionists. This session's goal is to work toward
concrete plans to create or expand programmatic support for the queer
faculty, undergraduate students, graduate students, and contingent
lecturers at our institutions. During this session, discussion will center
on the experiences of queer scholars, current forms of institutional
support, and key gaps in institutional support. Participants will create
an initial plan to strengthen support for queer scholars in their current
teaching, research, and service contexts. To carry this work beyond
the Cs' Think Tank, participants will help establish digital spaces to
continue sharing ideas and strategies, and to track work that supports
queer scholars across institutions.

Portland Ballroom 251
Facilitators: Sarah Dwyer, Texas A&M University–San Antonio
Lee Hibbard, Purdue University
Rebekah Sims, Purdue University
Think Tank on Research Methods

A.03	 The Messy and Complex Middle Ground between
Method and Methodology: A Conversation on
Research


In this cross-generational Think Tank session on methods,
methodologies, and theory, MA-level and PhD-level graduate
students, junior, and mid-career scholars come together to discuss the
messy and complex middle ground between method and methodology.
During this session, facilitators open up areas of discussion and
inquiry with participants, covering questions such as How should
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	67

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 67

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

method and methodology interoperate?; What are the limitations of
our privileged research methods?; What do emergent (new) methods
and methodologies look like?; Which methods/methodologies prove
useful over the course of a research career, and which are less? This
session will also feature an overview of the CCCC Research Awards,
including the newest Emergent Research/er awards.

Portland Ballroom 253
Facilitators: Jennifer Clary-Lemon, University of Winnipeg
Derek Mueller, Eastern Michigan University
Kate Pantelides, Middle Tennessee State University
Thomas Passwater, Eastern Michigan University
Jana Rosinski, Syracuse University

2-Basic Writing

A.04	 Emerging Voices in Basic Writing Studies


Sponsored by the Council on Basic Writing
This session presents selected graduate student work on basic writing,
highlighting the importance of BW within Comp/Rhet graduate programs.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chairs: Michael Hill, Henry Ford Community College, Dearborn, MI
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University
Speakers: Rachel Buck, The University of Arizona
Lucas Corcoran, The Graduate Center, City University of New York
Zarah Catherine Moeggenberg, Washington State University
Respondents: Rebecca Mlynarczyk, The Graduate Center, CUNY
Wendy Olson, Washington State University Vancouver
10-Research

A.05	 Precarious Positions: Research Praxis and Knowledge
Making across Contexts


Sponsored by the Consortium of Doctoral Programs in Rhetoric and
Composition Standing Group
The panel examines knowledge-making and research praxis across different
institutional constructs, researcher positions, and career trajectories.

F149
Speakers: Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University
Amy Kimme Hea, University of Arizona, Tucson

68

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 68

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Karen Lunsford, University of California–Santa Barbara
Aimee Mapes, University of Arizona
Kenneth Walker, University of Texas–San Antonio
10-Research

A.06	 New Spaces in Latinx Compositions and Rhetorics


Sponsored by the Latinx Caucus
This roundtable, sponsored by the Latinx Caucus, explores new Latinx
research projects from current graduate students.

D136
Speakers: Nancy Alvarez, St. John's University, "Hacking English: Latina
Tutors in the Writing Center"
Sonia Arellano, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Quilting as Method:
Composing Quilts That Memorialize Migrant Lives"
Alejandra Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Cosmic Races,
Cosmic Spaces: Interventions in Mythological Geographies &
Xicanistx Futurisms"
Santos Ramos, Michigan State University, "Tamales from Mesoamerica to
Michigan: Food Practices as Sites of Indigenist Intervention"
Consuelo Salas, University of Texas at El Paso, "From Past to Present:
Uncovering How the Sleeping Mexican Man Still Has Life"
James Sanchez, Texas Christian University, "Beyond the Black-White
Binary: Erasing/Composing the Latinx Self in Rural Spaces"
Respondents: Aja Martinez, Binghamton University–State University of
New York
12-Theory

A.07	 The Big F-Word: Theorizing Failure and Reimagining the
Writing Self


Panelists challenge us to reconsider new ways of envisioning the writing
situation and the purposes of writing through theories of queer topoi and
failure.

A109
Chair: Ruben Casas, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Allen Durgin, Columbia University, "Queer Topoi: Writing
'Like' Sedgwick"
Dan McCormick, Purdue University, "Locating Queer Writing in/as
Failure"
Mike Pak, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "Failure for All Students"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	69

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 69

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

A.08	 Delivering the Goods: Cultivating Reciprocity in Activist
Research


This panel describes and engages the audience in discussion of the
challenges of producing deliverables in three community-based research
projects.

E142
Speakers: Mindy Myers, Wayne State University, "Citizen Voices:
Entering the Policy Arena"
Suban Nur Cooley, Michigan State University, "Listening to the Diaspora:
Identity, Displacement, and the Idea of Home"
Renuka Uthappa, Wayne State University, "The Voices of Experience:
Discovering What Matters to Mentally Disabled Speakers"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.09	 "What's SRL got to do with it?": Strategies and Tools for
Self-Regulation in the Writing Classroom


This panel presents three empirical studies that utilize Self-Regulated
Learning (SRL) to provide pedagogical tools for composition classrooms.

D131
Speakers: Amy Ann Metcalf Latawiec, Wayne State University
Ryan Roderick, Carnegie Mellon
Joel Schneier, North Carolina State University
7-Institutional and Professional

A.10	 Promoting RAD Writing Research through
Interinstitutional Collaboration


Developing RAD research through interinstitutional collaboration which
foregrounds attention to sustainable, user-centered infrastructure.

B119
Chair: Shelley Staples, University of Arizona
Speakers: Bradley Dilger, Purdue University, "Understanding Research
Needs across Institutions, Expertise, and Purposes"
Michelle McMullin, Purdue University, "Sustainable Infrastructures for
Interinstitutional Research"
Zhaozhe Wang, Purdue University, "Creating Space for Interinstitutional
RAD Research with Corpus Linguistics"

70

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 70

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.11	 Fertile Ground: Cultivating Change through a First-Year
Writing Conference


A panel discusses how a First-Year Writing conference of multimodal
products fosters cross-cultural dialogue and rhetorical listening.

B115
Chair: Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Speakers: Cheryl Caesar, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Bree Gannon, Michigan State University, East Lansing
David Medei, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Joyce Meier, Michigan State University, East Lansing
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.12	 Cultivating Pathways with Game Assignments: Reframing
Failure through Playful Composition


Four instructors explore game design in FYC as strategies for moving both
instructors and students into multimedia creation/design ecologies.

A108
Speakers: Tony Bushner, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Alisha Karabinus, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Patrick Love, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
Ashley Velazquez, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

A.13	 Cultivating Critical Connections: Case Studies and
Microhistories of Composition and Corporatization,
Disability and Diversity


Four studies of four very different institutional contexts will be used to
connect disability services and writing programs.

Portland Ballroom 258
Chair: Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
Speakers: Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, "Empty
Accommodations and Insistent Outcomes"
Al Harahap, University of Arizona, "Cultivation, Clash, and Disabling the
Institution"
Andrew Lucchesi, Western Washington University, "Cultivating Disability
Prehistories"
Neil Simpkins, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Co-Opting Activism,
Cultivating Conservatism"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	71

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 71

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

12-Theory

A.14	 Passion Cultivates Long-Term Transfer


How does passion transfer to long-term literate habits? A theoretical
explanation grounded on empirical research.

D138
Speakers: Barbara George, Kent State University
Melody Gustafson, Kent State University
Uma Krishnan, Kent State University
7-Institutional and Professional

A.15	 Meeting and Mentoring in "Third Spaces": Graduate
Student and Faculty Experiences with Collaborative
Mentoring Practices in a Writing Program


Faculty and graduate student voices discuss collaborative, "third space"
practices for mentoring new teachers in our writing program.

E146
Speakers: Adrienne Jankens, Wayne State University
Tori Reeder, Wayne State University
Michael Shumway, Wayne State University
Jule Thomas, Wayne State University
13-Writing Programs

A.16	 Curriculum Design for Online Writing Centers


Presenters share strategies for online writing centers, including homegrown and asynchronous; training online tutors; and evaluating comments.

A104
Chair: Nina Ringer, The College of New Jersey
Speakers: Carrie Dickison, Wichita State University, "Cultivating Change
in Student Perceptions of the Online Writing Center"
David Elder, Morningside College, "Online Comments as a Guide to
Improving Instruction"
Shelah Simpson, Liberty University, "Cultivating the Capacity of Online
Writing Support: Online Student Perceptions of Online Writing Center
Designs"
Ryan Vingum, Miami University, "Cultivating Consultant Perspectives:
Online Writing Centers and Participatory Design Methodologies"

72

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 72

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.17	 Tracing Transfer: Examining Teaching for Transfer in
Three Curricular Sites


This panel presents the preliminary findings of a multi-institutional,
multisite research project: the Transfer of Transfer Project.

C123
Speakers: Matt Davis, University of Massachusetts, Boston
Liane Robertson, William Paterson University
Joyce R. Walker, Illinois State University, Normal
Respondent: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University
8-Language

A.18	 Translanguaging and/in the Two-Year College:
Approaching Language Difference in Diverse Scenes


English faculty members at community colleges consider translingualism.
What do difference and fluidity look like from their perspectives?

F151
Chair: Jason Evans, Prairie State College
Speakers: Jason Evans, Prairie State College
Jennifer Maloy, Queensborough Community College, NY
Hollie Villanueva, Arizona Western College
Respondent: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville
3-Community, Civic & Public

A.19	 Civic Discourse and Activist Rhetorics from the
Perspective of Underrepresented Groups
Four perspectives on activism and intersectionality.

F152
Chair: Norman Douglas "Doug" Bradley, University of California–Santa
Barbara
Speakers: Alejandra Bell, California State University, Los Angeles,
"Reading, Writing, and Learning with Students in Echo Park at 826LA"
Tika Lamsal, University of San Francisco, "Literacies sans Borders:
Cross-Language and Cross-Cultural Identities of Bhutanese Refugees
in the US"
Mudiwa Pettus, The Pennsylvania State University, "The Consequences
of an Unbridled Vision: Rhetorical Efficacy and the Black Radical
Imagination"
Elizabeth Tacke, University of Michigan, "To 'Give Voice' or to Stay
Silent: A Reparative Examination of Life Writing Practices in Disability
Studies"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	73

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 73

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

4-Creative Writing

A.20	 Autobiographical Journaling, Memoir, and Other Personal
Genres for Undergraduate and Graduate Education


This session considers the dimensions of personal writing and memoir and
its applications in the graduate and undergraduate classroom.

E148
Chair: Kathleen Cassity, Hawai'i Pacific University
Speakers: Diane Comer, Victoria University of Wellington, "The Personal
Essay, Migration, and the Topos of Memory"
Ashley Doonan, Bowling Green State University, "(Re)conceptualizing
the 'Me' Era: The Advantages of Autobiographical Journaling in the
University Classroom"
Laura Gray-Rosendale, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff,
"Cultivating the Rhetoric of Memoir: Innovative Online Graduate
Teaching"
Jo Hsu, Pennsylvania State University, "In Others' Words: Literacy
Narratives as Relational Rhetoric"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.21	 Cultivating Collaboration between Information Literacy
and Writing Instruction


Cultivating collaboration between information literacy and writing
instructors using disciplinary frameworks and the WPA OS.

D139
Speakers: Michelle Albert, University of Colorado Boulder
Barbara D'Angelo, Arizona State University
Teresa Grettano, The University of Scranton
Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Phoenix
Caroline Sinkinson, University of Colorado Boulder
3-Community, Civic & Public

A.22	 Indigenous Narratives in Public Spaces: Reorienting
Place-Based Composition


This panel argues that attending to Indigenous notions of place cultivates
more action-oriented communities within and outside the academy.

E145
Chair: kuʻualoha hoʻomanawanui, University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa,
"Indigenous Narratives in Public Spaces: Reorienting Place-Based
Composition"
Speakers: ʻIolani Antonio, University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, "Indigenous
Narratives: Transforming Rhetoric and Resurgence"

74

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 74

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Caryn Lesuma, University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, "Composing in Public
Spaces: Visual Rhetoric and Civic Discourse"
Lauren Nishimura, University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, "Articulating Identity
and Place: Community- and Self-Representation Online"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.23	 Gaming the System: Interactive Pedagogies and Game
Design


This panel examines the value of gaming as curricular design in writing
courses.

B111
Chair: Mariana Grohowski, Indiana University Southeast
Speakers: Maureen Fitzpatrick, Johnson County Community College,
"Video Games, Composition, and the Rise of Polythesesism: New
Media Tools and Writing to Explore"
Scott McDonald, University of California, Merced, "RPGs in FYCs:
Connecting Game-Based Pedagogy with the Composition Classroom"
Andreas Mechsner, CSU Stanislaus, "RPGs in FYCs: Connecting GameBased Pedagogy with the Composition Classroom"
Mark Mullen, The George Washington University, "Playing to Win:
Introducing World of Writing: The RPG"
4-Creative Writing

A.24	 Medical Narratives—Cultivating Stories, Voices, Selves,
Knowledge, Action


This interactive roundtable focuses on medical narratives as forms of
creative nonfiction in composition teaching and rhetorical research.

Portland Ballroom 257
Chair: Tiffany Friedman, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Speakers: Lynn Z. Bloom, University of Connecticut, Storrs, "My
Intimate Understanding of Illness/Disability: Student Storytelling on
the Cutting Edge"
Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "The
Writer's Craft: Turning the Ethnographic Interview into an Illness
Narrative"
Jordynn Jack, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "UNC Writing
Diabetes Study: Illness Narratives and Narrative Coding"
Sarah Singer, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Evidence,
Authority, and Knowledge Production: Contested Illnesses and
Rhetorical Appeals"
Jennifer Stockwell, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "UNC
Writing Diabetes Study: Illness Narratives and Narrative Coding"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	75

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 75

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.25	 Google Classroom Hacks: How Technology Can Help
Writing Instructors Cultivate Students' Reflection,
Metacognition, and Transfer of Learning


We present research on students' metacognition and offer suggestions for
incorporating Google apps into reflection, process, and feedback.

B114
Speakers: Kelsey Hixson-Bowles, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Marissa McKinley, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Roger Powell, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
2-Basic Writing

A.26	 Accelerating Developmental English at Atlantic Cape:
The Triad Model


Atlantic Cape's triad model of developmental acceleration pairs students
from two composition courses in one corequisite support course.

D135
Speakers: Stephanie Natale-Boianelli, Atlantic Cape Community College
Richard Russell, Atlantic Cape Community College
13-Writing Programs

A.27	 Cultivating Programs in Science Communication: Insights
from General Education Programs, Two-Year Colleges,
and Interdisciplinary Minors


This panel considers the role of science writing coursework in general
education programs, two-year colleges, and interdisciplinary minors.

E147
Speakers: Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University
Gabriel Cutrufello, York College of Pennsylvania, "Cultivating General
Education Courses in Science Writing: Opportunities and Challenges
for a Writing-about-Writing Context"
Maria Gigante, Western Michigan University, "STEAMing the
Development of a Science Communication Minor"
Arthur Schuhart, Northern Virginia Community College-Annandale,
"Cultivating STEM Writing Programs at the Two-Year College"

76

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 76

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.28	 Modes for Mainstreaming Students with Disabilities:
Addressing the Complexities of Access through Assistive
Technologies and Tactics of Inclusion


This panel explores the complexities of access, inclusion, and methods in
teaching traditional classes with "mainstreamed" students.

A105
Chair: Tara Wood, Rockford University, Poplar Grove, IL, "Modes for
Mainstreaming Students with Disabilities: Addressing the Complexities
of Access through Assistive Technologies and Tactics of Inclusion"
Speakers: Victoria Anderson, New York University, "When Worlds
Collide: Autism in the University Classroom"
Charlotte Brammer, Samford University, "Leveraging Writing Center
Tutors to Break (Invisible) Disability Barriers"
Pamela Chisum, Miami University of Ohio, "My Name Is Meg: How
Augmentative and Assistive Communication Devices Have Given Me
a Voice"
Maggie Collins, Bowling Green State University, "Improving Writing
Skills and Perceptions: Assistive Technology in the Writing Center"
Margaret Moore, Fairfield University, "My Name Is Meg: How
Augmentative and Assistive Communication Devices Have Given Me
a Voice"
13-Writing Programs

A.29	 Negotiating Literacy: Tutor Reflection and Approaches in
Multilingual Cross-Cultural Writing Center Sessions


We examine the ways writing center tutors reflect on sessions to facilitate
"negotiated literacy."

F150
Chair: Kristi Girdharry, Johnson & Wales University
Speakers: Areti Sakellaris, Northeastern University
Michael Turner, Northeastern University
Belinda Walzer, Northeastern University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	77

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 77

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.30	 Reconsidering Revision and Reflection: Two Studies of
the (Dis)Connections between Revision Knowledge and
Practice


This session examines the relationship between students' metacognitive
reflection and their revision practices.

B113
Speakers: Martin Camper, Loyola University Maryland, Baltimore
Heather Lindenman, Elon University
Justin Lohr, University of Maryland, College Park
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.31	 The Future of College Writing and How to Stop It


What is our field's response to the erosion of FYW on college campuses
due to state-level college credit initiatives (DE, AP, CLEP)?

B116
Chair: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Speakers: Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Morgan Gresham, University of South Florida, St. Petersburg
Eva Payne, Chemeketa Community College
Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Kathy Rose, Iowa State University
Carol Wittig, University of Richmond (VA)
12-Theory

A.32	 Re/Orienting Writing Studies: Queer Methods to Change
the Field


This roundtable explores the need for and current work on queer and
queered methods and methodologies in rhetoric and writing studies.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Trixie Smith, Michigan State University
Speakers: William Banks, East Carolina University
Matthew Cox, East Carolina University
Caroline Dadas, Montclair State University
Hillery Glasby, Michigan State University
Stacey Waite, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Stephanie West-Puckett, East Carolina University

78

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 78

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

10-Research

A.33	 Cultivating Capacity for Collaborative Research,
Understanding Change: Preliminary Findings from
Longitudinal Case Studies of Undergraduates as
Writer-Researchers


Speakers describe a longitudinal study of undergraduates' researched
writing and source engagement based on documents and interviews.

E141
Speakers: William Carpenter, High Point University
Leanne Jernigan, High Point University
Cara Kozma, High Point University
Holly Middleton, High Point University
Donna Scheidt, High Point University
Kathy Shields, Wake Forest University
9-Professional and Technical Writing

A.34	 A Day in the Life: Reporting the Results of a 2015 CCCC
Research Initiative Grant on Professional Writers in the
Workplace


Reports on CCCCs-supported research on workplace writing. Discusses
site observations, survey results, and implications for writing programs.

D133
Speakers: Eva Brumberger, Arizona State University, Tempe, "A Day in
the Life: (Re)Defining Writing in the Workplace"
Claire Lauer, Arizona State University, Tempe, "A Day in the Life: Portrait
of the Writer in the New Millennium"
5-History

A.35	 Disciplinarity and Identity


Presenters use classical and canonical criticism in rhetoric and composition
to explore disciplinary ways of knowing and being.

B112
Chair: Amber Buck, University of Alabama
Speakers: Gregory Coles, Penn State University, "Myth-Making and the
Narrative Construction of Identity"
Andrew Hillen, Utah State University, "A Historical Example of How
Language Defines Disciplinary Genres"
Loren Roberson, University of Memphis, "Who We Are: Reinterpreting
Classical Rhetoric as a Form of Disciplinary Identity"
Jerry Stinnett, Duquesne University, "Emig, Crisis, and Professional
Composition: Cultivating Critical Capacity by Complicating Tales of
Disciplinary Self-Creation"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	79

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 79

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

5-History

A.36	 Alt/Histories of Composition: Early Writing Textbooks, the
"Other" Dartmouth, and MLA Job Lists


This panel draws on archives associated with composition to tell alternative
histories of the formation of our field.

B118
Speakers: Lance Cummings, University of North Carolina Wilmington
Margaret Strain, University of Dayton
Annette Vee, University of Pittsburgh
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.37	 Cultivating Accessibilty and Inclusion through Disability
Pedagogy and Universal Design


This session examines student learning environments in relation to
universal design principles and inclusive learning.

C126
Chair: Kim Allison, Texas Woman's University
Speakers: Jane Denison-Furness, Central Oregon Community College,
"Accessing the Dream: Rethinking Design and Delivery in the Basic
Writing Classroom"
Mark Leahy, University of South Florida, "Creating Postpedagogical Safe
Spaces"
Logan Middleton, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Writing
Deafness: Navigating Gestural Language, Literacy, and Deaf Identity in
the Composition Classroom"
Zach Petrea, Heartland Community College, "Engaging Curriculum
Revision: Assessing a Three-Year Program to Cultivate Universal
Design for Learning"
10-Research

A.38	 Women's Ways of Making Histories: Complicating
Feminist Rhetorical Historiography


This panel complicates feminist research methodologies by reexamining
and reconceiving the ways we do feminist historiography.

C124
Chair: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
Speakers: Suzanne Bordelon, San Diego State University, "Complicating
Domesticity: 'Dame Shirley' and the California Gold Mines, 1851–
1852"
Cristina Ramirez, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Checking Our
Linguistic and Cultural Blindspots: The Gendered, Cultural, and
Disciplinary Politics of Recovery"
80

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 80

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Bo Wang, California State University, Fresno, "Conceiving Feminism
between Worlds: The Ladies' Monthly and 'the Woman Question,'
1933–1937"
Respondent: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
12-Theory

A.39	 The Rhetorical Potential of Visual Confusion


Four panelists examine how overly functional approaches to information
graphics obscure their communicative and pedagogical potential.

D137
Speaker: John Jones, West Virginia University, "Delaying Certainty in
Visual Design"
Drew Loewe, St. Edward's University, "Infographics and Bullshit"
Madeleine Sorapure, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Designed
to Explore"
Michael Trice, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "STEM Writing as
Diagrammatic Confusion"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

A.40	 "You Can't Do THAT at Community College!" Challenging
Stereotypes of Rigor and Student Engagement in a TwoYear Setting


This panel examines their responses to misconceptions and assumptions
about what should and can be taught in two-year writing courses.

A106
Speakers: Kofi Adisa, Howard Community College, "Inventing the
Community College: Going beyond 'What's Expected' of/from
Composition Professors by Students and Peers"
Sylvia Lee, Howard Community College, "Swinging the Pendulum,
Striking Balance: Creative Writing Strategies and Composition in the
Community College FYC"
Rick Leith, Howard Community College, "What Are YOU Doing
Here? Fighting Resistance to First-Year Student Engagement in the
Community"
Juliette Ludeker, Howard Community College, "'Don't You Think You're
Being Too Hard for a Community College Class?': Teaching toward/
against Student and Faculty Assumptions about What Composition
'Is'"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	81

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 81

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

A.41	 Rhetorical Approaches to Sustainability and the
Environment


This panel examines historical and current relationships between rhetoric,
writing, and ecological concerns.

C122
Chair: Paul LaPrade, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Marissa Juarez, Central New Mexico Community College,
"Cultivating Sustainability, Creating Change: Campus as a Living Lab
Initiatives in the Technical Writing Classroom"
Michael Knievel, University of Wyoming, "Rural Rhetoric and Agency:
Wind Power, Agriculture, and Reconciling Contrasting Narratives of
Place"
Emmett Ryan, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Fast Food, Slow
Composition, and Teaching Food Studies in the College Writing
Classroom"
6-Information Technologies

A.42	 Designing while Feminist: Composing an Inclusive
Practice of Digital Design


Interdisciplinary scholars and media makers apply intersectional feminist
rhetoric to negotiate an inclusive rhetoric of digital design.

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Dev Bose, University of Arizona, "Embodying Learning
Online"
Christine Martorana, College of Staten Island, "Crafting Feminist Social
Media"
Nicole Ashanti McFarlane, Fayetteville State University, "Making Place
for Femininity"
Anne-Marie Womack, Tulane University, "Remaking Accessible Syllabi"
Roundtable Leader: Patricia Fancher, University of California, Santa
Barbara, "Building Alliances in Webspaces"
12-Theory

A.43	 Historical Publics, Rhetorical Figures


Speakers will discuss the rhetorical and historical realities of individual
and cultural publics.

B110
Chair: Suzanne Lane, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

82

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 82

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Speakers: Erika Strandjord, Concordia College, "Paradox as a Rhetorical
Strategy and Ethical Approach to Living in the World"
Louise Zamparutti, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Mary Baker
Eddy: Platonic Rhetoric, Counterpublicity, and Religious Identity
Construction"
10-Research

A.44	 Improving the Experience and Efficacy of Testing for
Placement


While taking critical stances toward testing, these speakers present
research-based advice about how to improve writing assessment practices.

C125
Chair: Marcy Llamas Senese, independent writing program consultant
Speakers: Elizabeth Keating, University of Houston, "'Give Them a Sob
Story': Mobilizing Student Experiences of Standardized Test Writing to
Improve Teaching and Assessment"
Gillan White, Saginaw Valley State University, "A Humanistic Approach
to Quantitative Analysis or a Quantitative Approach to Humanism:
Putting Placement Testing in Its Place"
Meng Yu, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Building Boundary of
Writing Assessment through Validation"
7-Institutional and Professional

A.45	 What Is Writing Studies Made of?


Tackling questions of structures and boundaries of the field: presenters
explore disciplinary futures growing out of earlier alliances.

D140
Chair: Holly Ryan, Pennsylvania State University, Berks
Speakers: Peter Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, "Cultivating
Argumentation"
John Dunn, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "Capacity and Change
since the 2003 Alliance of Rhetoric Societies (ARS) Conference:
Looking Back to Look Ahead"
Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, "Cultivating Argumentation"
Bob Samuels, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Contingent Labor,
Writing Studies, and Writing about Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	83

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 83

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

A.46	 (Trans)lingual and -national Perspectives in Writing
Studies


Panelists discuss varying projects that focus on improving composition
writing practices.

A103
Chair: Benjamin Foster, Portland Community College
Speakers: David Martins, Rochester Institute of Technology, "Redesigning
FYW to Cultivate Students' Transnational Literacy Practices"
Vivette Milson-Whyte, The University of the West Indies, Mona,
"Cultivating Transnational Composition: Terms of Exchange in/for
Capacity Building"
Ruby Nancy, East Carolina University, "Audre and Gloria Made Me Do It:
Queering Genres, Translinguality, and Multivocality in Writing Studies
Scholarship"
3-Community, Civic & Public

A.47	 Exploring Public Religious Displays in the Rhetorical
Extracurriculum and Classroom


How can compositionists draw from public religious displays to support
students' rhetorical awareness and development?

E143
Chair: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College
Speakers: Christopher Brown, RCTE, University of Arizona, "In
Defense of 'Preaching to the Choir': A Place for the Sermonic in the
Composition Classroom"
Geoffrey Clegg, Western Michigan University, "Reflecting Rhetoric:
World Hijab Day and the Extensions of Rhetorical Performance and
Community Literacy"
Emily Cope, York College of Pennsylvania, "Campus Preachers and the
Secular Imaginaries of Evangelical Undergraduates"
TJ Geiger, Baylor University, "Hope in the Ashes: Rhetoric of the 'Ashes
to Go' Campaign"
8-Language

A.48	 ESL beyond the ESL Classroom


This panel articulates the need for a more capacious understanding of ESL
beyond the confines of the ESL classroom, with implications for faculty
and writing program development.

D132
Chair: Gita DasBender, Seton Hall University

84

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 84

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

Speakers: Daniel Floyd, University of Cincinnati, "Access for All,
Not One-Size-Fits-All: ESL Strategies as Universally Designed
Composition Pedagogies"
Jennifer Haan, University of Dayton, "'I am not an ESL Teacher': Faculty
Response to Internationalization and Writing across the Disciplines"
Petger Schaberg, University of Colorado Boulder, "Extending the
Mentoring Relationship from Chinese ESL Students to Non-ESL
Classrooms"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

A.49	 Neoliberal Discourses, Translingual Dispositions:
Cultivating Critical Perspectives among Scholars in
Composition, Applied Linguistics, and Sociolinguistics


Scholars from multiple disciplines explore how composition's translingual
turn can work around and through the hegemony of neoliberalism.

C120
Chair: Sara P. Alvarez, University of Louisville
Speakers: David Green, Howard University
Christopher J. Jenks, University of South Dakota
Ryuko Kubota, University of British Columbia
Jerry Won Lee, University of California, Irvine
Respondent: Suresh Canagarajah, Penn State University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

A.50	 Cultivating Graduate Writing and Teaching


This panel emphasizes graduate student professional development and
encouragement.

B117
Chair: John McKinnis, Buffalo State, State University of New York
Speakers: Crystal Colombini, University of Texas at San Antonio,
"Cultivating Graduate Writing Success through Rhetorical Imitation"
Rosalind Diaz, University of California-Berkeley, "RADQOMP: An
Experiment in Radical Queer Pedagogies of Composition"
Heather Lang, Florida State University, "Cultivating (Graduate) Writers:
Encouraging Institutional Support, Meta-Awareness, and Writerly
Habits in Dissertation Boot Camps"
Nancy Wilson, Texas State University, "Cultivating Awareness:
Deconstruction as a Tool for Diversity in the TA Practicum and FYE
Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	85

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 85

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 10:30–11:45 a.m.

13-Writing Programs

A.51	 Institutional Ethnography and WAC/WID Development:
Mapping Standpoints on Writing as Paths to Engagement


Institutional Ethnography offers WAC/WID programs useful ways of
identifying opportunities to shape disciplinary writing requirements.

E144
Chair: Chris Fosen, California State University, Chico
Speakers: Susan Delaney, Ithaca College, "How Does Your Garden
Grow? Cultivating a Culture of Writing in an Era of Mandates"
Chris Fosen, California State University, Chico, "Mapping Standpoints
on Writing: Austerity Budgeting and Local Systems of Value in WAC
Development"
Sherry Linkon, Georgetown University, "Tracing and/or Building: Using
Institutional Ethnography to Engage Faculty"
6-Information Technologies

A.52	 (Re)Uniting Reading, Writing, and Digital Composition:
Changing Teaching and Learning through Online Literacy
Education and Research


This panel addresses three subdisciplines—reading, writing, and digital
composition—as key literacies for online composition education.

D134
Chair: Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish
Speakers: Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish, "Writing to Teach: Facilitating
Online Students' Reading, Writing, and Digital Composition"
Alice Horning, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Cultivating Reading
Online and Off: A Key to Digital Literacy"
Jennifer Sheppard, San Diego State University, "Literacies of the
Infographic: A Multimodal Approach to Integrating Reading, Writing,
and Designing in Online Classes"

86

a1-86-4Cs-2017.indd 86

2/8/17 7:52 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

B Sessions: 12:15–1:30 p.m.
Poster Sessions
Portland Ballroom Lobby
The United Study of Missions: Modern Christian Education for 20thCentury American Women
How members of early 20th-century women's foreign missionary societies
educated each other about the world and their position in it.
Marion Wolfe, The Ohio State University
Taking It to the Streets: Developing Activist Teacher Responses to Basic
Writing Placement Processes
In a time when Basic Writing is again under fire, I argue that we need first to
consider the effectiveness of placement mechanisms.
Michelle Stevier-Johanson, Dickinson State University
Inspired to Unplug: How Writing about Their Digital Selves Motivated
Students to Disconnect These Online Identities
Presentation of revelatory writing produced in a University of California, Santa
Cruz, composition course in which students interrogate their "digital selves."
Lindsay Knisely, University of California, Santa Cruz
Ask Amy: Newspaper Advice Columns Enhancing International Students'
Writing
Discussing how newspaper advice columns can be great sources for enhancing
international students' writing in ESL and other classes.
John Stasinopoulos, College of DuPage
Meaningful Accessibility: Using Universal Instructional Design to
Cultivate a More Accessible Writing Classroom
Presenter connects Universal Instructional Design to FYC learning and
teaching objectives in order to increase accessibility.
Rachel Donegan, Middle Tennessee State University
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	87

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 87

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing to Practicing Educators in an Online Environment:
Best Practices
Showcasing an online, graduate-level writing course that allows secondary
teachers to develop as writers and as teachers of writing.
Kristin Stang, California State University, Fullerton
Chris Street, California State University, Fullerton
Psychosocial Disability, Mental Disability, Neurobiological Diversity, and
C/S/X: Challenging Cultural Norms, Creating Space for Divergent Texts
Examines labels concerning mental disability, cultural reactions to it, and who
speaks, who listens, and who is its object.
Nancy Reichert, Kennesaw State University, Marietta
Cultivating Success: A Framework for Building High School–College
Collaborations
College and high school faculty connect to discuss the potential of "Framework
for Success" for preparing students for college writing.
Hillory Oakes, Hebron Academy
Cs the Day: More Than Just Sparkleponies
This poster will share descriptive and correlative assessment data from the 2016
Cs the Day game play and post-conference survey.
Scott Reed, Georgia Gwinnett College
Rochelle Rodrigo, University of Arizona
Text Recycling across Academic Disciplines
This poster presents data about "text recycling" in both editorial and
pedagogical contexts across a number of academic disciplines.
Susanne Hall, California Institute of Technology

88

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 88

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Feminist Capacity for Action

B.01	 Cultivating Rhetorics of Interruption as Feminist Praxis
in Rhetoric and Composition Studies

After presenting the results of our collaborative research on the ways
in which feminist rhetoric and composition teacher-scholars continue
to experience and navigate sexism and other exclusionary practices in
the academy, we will engage attendees in a conversation with the intent
to engage in grassroots organizing within the discipline and beyond.
Participants will address questions such as:
•	 How can rhetoric and composition studies help us to understand,
resist, and reframe patriarchal practices so deeply embedded in
institutions of higher education?
•	 How can we best leverage the institutional locations of rhetoric
and composition programs, writing programs, and writing centers
to address systemic sexism and exclusion in our field and in the
academy?
•	 How can we use our pedagogy to shift the culture of sexism,
discrimination, and exclusion? What are the pedagogical potentials
and risks of interruption (for instructors, students, administrators,
etc.)?
Because the primary objective of this Cultivate session is to cultivate
a space in which feminist compositionists and rhetoricians build
our capacity to take strategic action, we hope these questions will
enable attendees to work together to identify specific approaches
to interruption as feminist praxis, including how we might sustain
ourselves as professionals and how we can implement interruption as
a rhetorical tool for social justice education and anti-oppression across
institutions.

Portland Ballroom 252
Facilitators: Erica Cirillo-McCarthy, Stanford University
Elise Verzosa Hurley, Illinois State University, Normal
Amanda Wray, University of North Carolina, Asheville

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	89

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 89

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Cultivating Scholarship/Publication

B.02	 "Dull Duty" and Disciplinary Issues: A Roundtable with
NCTE Editors
The purpose of this session is to broaden our understanding of
the often-invisible processes and people who serve as guides and
gatekeeper of our field's periodicals. In order to help us better
understand editorial practices and challenges, this session will begin
with a report of results from a national study of journal editors in the
field. After thus broadly surveying the role of the editor, editors from
five journals will offer brief (5–7 minutes) remarks on the state of
editing.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University, Boston
Rachael Green-Howard, University of Delaware
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Marathon County
Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA
Cultivating Ourselves throughout Our Careers

B.03	 Seasons of a Writing Teacher's Life: Sustaining Energy
throughout Our Careers

This Cultivate session will allow for a conversation about the unique
challenges and privileges specific to writing teachers at various stages
of their careers. We will introduce a set of discussion questions and
then facilitate a workshop-style forum in order to glean from the
group's collective wisdom effective strategies, innovative solutions,
and even positive reframing techniques that can help us—and
colleagues at our home institutions—sustain our energy through the
seasons of our careers. We hope that one outcome of the session will
be a series of concrete strategies to bring home—or to advance to
the CCCC for a position statement—in order to retain and cultivate
teachers across the lifespan of their careers in both formal and informal
ways.

Portland Ballroom 251
Facilitators: Shareen Grogan, National University
Alyssa O'Brien, The University of Sydney

90

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 90

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

8-Language

B.04	 "The Empire Writes Back": Toward a Geopolitical
Paradigm of Translingualism

Sponsored by the Asian/Asian American Caucus
This Asian/Asian American Caucus-sponsored roundtable offers a
geopolitical lens for studying translingual communication in South Asia.

Portland Ballroom 256
Chair: Debarati Dutta, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Speakers: Debarati Dutta, University of North Carolina, Charlotte
Rashi Jain, Montgomery College
Sonia Sharmin, University of Georgia
Respondent: Suresh Canagarajah, Penn State University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.05	 How WPAs Can Build Capacity for Student Veteran
Learning

Sponsored by the Writing with Current, Former, and Future Members of
the Military Standing Group
Speakers and audience will address curricular and pedagogical questions
about how WPAs can build capacity for serving student veterans.

D135
Speakers: Ashley Ludewig, University of Louisville
Jeffrey Turner, Joint Forces Staff College/National Defense University
Kuhio Walters, West Chester University
Cathrine White-Hoekstra, Southern Illinois University/John A. Logan
College
Roundtable Leader: Steve Bailey, Central Michigan University
12-Theory

B.06	 Ecocomposition and Empowerment: Service-Learning as
a Vehicle for Implementing Ecological Pedagogy
We offer our model to explore the practical application of ecocomposition
using service-learning and foster discussion about best practice.

A108
Speakers: Jaquelyn Davis, University of Nevada, Reno
John Ellis, Saint Mary's College of California
Ruth Sylvester, Saint Mary's College of California

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	91

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 91

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

12-Theory

B.07	 Cultivating Roses: Native Women Writing for Action

This panel celebrates the ways Native women use writing to rewrite
narratives perpetuated by the dominant discourse.

A106
Speakers: Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
"Writing and Rhetorical Sovereignty: Strategies for Creating Change in
Indigenous Communities"
Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri, "Standing with the Red
Shawls: The Rhetoric of Digression in The Round House"
Kenlea Pebbles, Michigan State University, "Indigenous Women's Voices
and Words: How Social Media Can Create Awareness and Change"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.08	 Socially Just Pedagogy for the College English
Classroom

This panel seeks to evaluate Asao Inoue's assertions for holistic classroom
ecologies that allow for equality in assessing students.

Portland Ballroom 253
Chair: LuMing Mao, Miami University
Speakers: Danielle Bacigalupo, St. John's University
Raquel Corona, St. John's University
Carolyn Salazar Nunez, St. John's University
Respondent: Asao Inoue, University of Washington, Tacoma
3-Community, Civic & Public

B.09	 Radical Localism: Cultivating Institutional Literacies for
Community Engagement
This panel explores the cultivation of institutional literacies from three
different perspectives, institutions, and community partnerships.

E143
Speakers: Rosanne Carlo, College of Staten Island (CUNY), "What To
Do When You're New: Developing Institutional Literacies through an
Ecological Perspective for Community Outreach"
Adam Hubrig, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Possible Positionalities:
(Re)Imagining Graduate Student–Run Community Engagement's Place
in the University"
Rachael Wendler Shah, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Giving Teeth to
Reciprocity: Community Members Grading Students"
Jessica Shumake, University of Arizona, "Giving Teeth to Reciprocity:
Community Members Grading Students"

92

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 92

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.10	 Cultivating Innovation: Design Thinking in the
Composition Classroom

This session explores theoretical and pedagogical connections between
design thinking, composition studies, and the writing classroom.

B118
Chair: Scott Wible, University of Maryland
Speakers: Angela Glotfelter, Miami University of Ohio, "Participatory
Design Thinking: Teaching Human-Centric Problem-Solving in the
Composition Classroom"
William C. Kurlinkus, The University of Oklahoma, "Making as Research:
Adopting Design Methods in First-Year Composition"
Sarah Summers, Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, "Design Thinking
and Team Writing: The Benefits of Prototyping in the Technical Writing
Classroom"
Scott Wible, University of Maryland, "Critical Designs for the
Composition Classroom"
10-Research

B.11	 Cultivating Compositional Rhythms, Intensities,
Movements

Four unique approaches to writing and rhetorics cultivate new disciplinary
knowledge while remaining rooted in personal interests and cares.

D139
Chair: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, "Worlds
of Involvement: From the Hobby to the Scholarly"
Speakers: Aaron Beveridge, University of Florida, Gainesville, "Why Text
Still Matters"
Laurie Gries, University of Colorado Boulder, "Doing Visual Studies in a
Digital Age"
Brian McNely, University of Kentucky, "Archives, Affects, Ambience"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	93

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 93

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

B.12	 "Between belongingness and otherness": Identity, Writing
Workshops, and the New Demographic
This panel shares the theoretical and practical application of a writing
workshop series used to support basic writing across the curriculum.

D131
Speakers: Haley Delgado, Washington State University, "Inclusive
Language and Personal Experience in Academic Writing"
Rachel Sanchez, Washington State University, Pullman, "Identification
and Representation in Undergraduate Writing Workshops"
Jonathan Torres, Washington State University, "Writing and Feedback: A
Dialogue of Identity"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.13	 Cultivating Capacity: Developing Research-Based
Support for Graduate and Faculty Writers

This session will model data-driven strategies for supporting graduate and
faculty writers and for fostering on-campus cultures of writing.

E145
Speakers: Michele Eodice, University of Oklahoma, Norman
Erin Harrington, University of Rhode Island
Shannon Madden, University of Rhode Island
Sandra Tarabochia, University of Oklahoma
Respondent: Candace Epps-Robertson, Old Dominion University
10-Research

B.14	 Revealing the Educational Experiences and Needs of
Los Otros DREAMers

Presentation of initial results from a CCCC research initiative study of
"Otros Dreamers" literacy backgrounds.

B116
Chair: René De los Santos, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California
Speakers: Aida Cortes, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California
René De los Santos, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California
Tatiana Galván de la Fuente, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California
Saul González Medina, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California
Priscilla Nuñez Tapia, Universidad Autónoma de Baja California

94

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 94

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.15	 Who Has the Right to Speak? Power and Discourse in the
Classroom
This session examines instances of silencing of marginalized voices as
well as power struggles in classroom spaces.

C125
Chair: Travis Grandy, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Speakers: Jennifer Bay, Purdue University, "Revisiting Contrapower
Harassment in the Composition Classroom 20 Years Later: What Has
Changed?"
Jill McKay Chrobak, Oakland University, Rochester, "The Struggle Is
Real: Whiteness Studies, Hip-Hop Pedagogies, and the Rhetorics of
White Privilege"
Honora M. Neal, Colorado Mesa University, "Creating a Climate for
Growth: Cultivating Equity in Student Classroom Discourse"
Shana Scudder, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "A Stance of
Openness: Cultivating Student Agency in Curriculum Design"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

B.16	 Transitions and Transfers in Technical and Professional
Communities
Explorations of transfer and transitioning into the workplace.

B117
Chair: Sarah Rude-Walker, Spelman College
Speakers: Brian Fitzpatrick, George Mason University, "Didn't Get the
Memo: Refining Professional Writing Transfer Strategies through the
Study of Authentic Writing Spaces"
Jessica McCaughey, The George Washington University, "Didn't Get the
Memo: Refining Professional Writing Transfer Strategies through the
Study of Authentic Writing Spaces"
CP Moreau, Carnegie Mellon University, "From College to the Cubicle: A
Multiple-Voiced Inquiry into the Literate Practices of Recent College
Graduates Entering the Professional Workplace"
Lisa Sperber, University of California, Davis, "Using Threshold Concepts
in Writing in the Sciences and Health Sciences"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	95

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 95

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

8-Language

B.17	 Making Language Visible in Composition: Investigating
the Role of Language in the Training and Practices of
Writing Instructors
Speakers present three case studies focused on making language more
visible in writing instruction, assessment, and instructor preparation.

D137
Speakers: Laura Aull, Wake Forest University, "Language Use and Peer
and Instructor Evaluation"
Zak Lancaster, Wake Forest University, "Making Stancetaking Language
Visible: Opportunities and Challenges for Instructor-Readers"
Christine Tardy, University of Arizona, "Locating Language in Writing
Teacher Education: An Analysis of Trends and Materials"
Madelyn Tucker, University of Arizona, "Locating Language in Writing
Teacher Education: An Analysis of Trends and Materials"
Respondent: Amy Devitt, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Response:
Addressing the Challenges of Making Language Visible to Writing
Instructors"
5-History

B.18	 Cultivating New Capacities for Action: Women Rhetors
and Multimodal Rhetoric in the Early-20th Century
Three 20th-century women's innovations in audio and visual rhetoric
enabled challenges to ideologies of racism, gender, and military
intervention.

A105
Speakers: Jill Lamberton, Wabash College, "A Pacifist on Speaking Tour:
Maude Royden, 1937–1939"
Lisa Mastrangelo, Centenary University of New Jersey, "Subverting the
Rhetorical Paradigm: The Photography of Evelyn Cameron and the
Difficulty of the 'Exceptional Woman' Myth"
Henrietta Wood, University of Missouri–Kansas City, "Enacting Equality:
Eleanor Roosevelt's Visual Arguments for African American Rights,
1935–1953"

96

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 96

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

B.19	 Reading, Writing, and the Identities of Basic Writers

Speakers offer strategies for supporting and advancing basic writers.

A109
Chair: Heather Aguailar, Ventura College
Speakers: Michelle Brazier, Raritan Valley Community College,
"Cultivating Critical Readers: Basic Writers in First-Year Composition"
Joanna Lackey, SUNY Westchester Community College, "A Double
Curriculum: Cultivating the Insider/Outsider Perspective of
Mainstreamed Basic Writers"
Alexa Offenhauer, Teachers College, "Cultivating Scholars: The Literature
Workshop and Basic Writing"
12-Theory

B.20	 The Cultural Powers of Multimodal Composing

This panel examines the potential for cultural and rhetorical meaning
making in multimodal and digital composing.

D134
Chair: Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University
Speakers: Courtney Patrick-Weber, Bay Path University, "Creating a
'Language' of Trauma: Exploring Trauma Writing through Multimodal
Formats"
Mark Triana, Washington State University, "'Critical Making' Cultures
in Post-Embargo Cuba: Toward a Critical Theory of [Multimodal]
Composition and Adaptive Consumption"
Matthew Vetter, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Understanding and
Teaching Critical Digital Praxis"
13-Writing Programs

B.21	 WPA Legacies: Stories of Love, Labor, and Loss

Looking across three different multigenerational administrative
perspectives, this panel adds to scholarship on WPA legacies and
narratives.

E144
Speakers: Kristi Costello, Arkansas State University, Jonesboro, "When
Foregoers Let Go: The Rhetoric and Reality of WPA Loss"
Kelly Kinney, University of Wyoming, "Foregone but Not Forgotten:
Wisdom from Multigenerational WPAs"
Kate Navickas, Cornell University, "Affirming Legacies: Lessons from the
Exiting Writing Center Director"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	97

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 97

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.22	 Composition and Dual-Credit Programs: Negotiating
Boundaries between High School and College-Level
Writing

This panel considers the changing definition of "college-level writing" in
light of the increased prevalence of dual-credit programs.

B113
Speakers: Megan Bardolph, Penn State New Kensington
Amy Lueck, Santa Clara University
Caroline Wilkinson, New Jersey City University
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

B.23	 Some Rhetorical Provocations on Genre

Each panelist presents a provocation on genre studies.

F152
Chair: Elizabeth Chamberlain, Arkansas State University
Speakers: Julie Amick Cook, University of North Carolina at Charlotte,
"A Knot-Worked Composition: An Analysis of Digital Genre Chains
and Reflection"
Neil Nakadate, Iowa State University, "Rhetorical Theory and Creative
Nonfiction—James Kinneavy, Exploratory Discourse, and the Writing
of Memoir"
Luke Thominet, Florida International University, "After Careful
Consideration, We've Selected Another Candidate: A Directed Content
Analysis of Academic Job Candidate Rejection Letters"
Nicole Wallack, Columbia University, Undergraduate Writing Program,
"Essays at the Center: Reintegrating Writing Studies in the 21st
Century"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.24	 Learning the Language of the Digital Native: Cultivating
Writing Instruction in the Digital Age

A cross-section of the writing community at our school addresses teaching
writing in the digital age in an interactive presentation.

C120
Speakers: John Alberti, Northern Kentucky University
Jen Cellio, Northern Kentucky University
Jonathan Cullick, Northern Kentucky University
Jude Noel, Northern Kentucky University
Elizabeth VandeWater, Northern Kentucky University

98

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 98

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.25	 What We Talk about When We Talk about Failure:
Cultivating Failure-Curious Writing Pedagogies

This panel asks both what writing scholars mean when we talk about
failure and what we can learn from failure.

B119
Speakers: Jacob Babb, Indiana University Southeast, New Albany, "The
Complexities and Contradictions of Teachers' Responses to Student
Failure"
Allison Carr, Coe College, "On the Instability of Failure"
Nicole Caswell, East Carolina University, "Privileging Failure in Writing
Center Assessment Designs"
Steven Corbett, George Mason University, "Failed Knowledge Transfer
and Peer-to-Peer Pedagogies"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.26	 Anyone Can Code-Mesh: Teaching and Tutoring
Strategies for the First-Year Writing Classroom

The panel presents strategies for integrating code-meshing in first-year
composition through course and assignment design and tutoring.

B114
Speakers: Whitney Gegg-Harrison, University of Rochester, "Learning to
Think about Language in a First-Year Writing Class: Code-Meshing as
an Object of Study in Formal, Argumentative Writing"
Sarah Lamade, University of Rochester, "Supporting the Author's Own
Voice: Developing Strategies for Tutoring Code-Meshing"
Stella Wang, University of Rochester, "Building a Linguistically Inclusive
Classroom: The Place and Practices of Code-Meshing in FYC"
Suzanne Woodring, University of Rochester, "Considering Audience and
Teaching Culture through Informal, Code-Meshing Opportunities:
Code-Meshing as a Communicative Tool"
13-Writing Programs

B.27	 Cultivating Reflective Consciousness in First-Year
Composition: Classroom Partnerships with Writing
Centers

Identifies various ways in which students' reflective writing significantly
improves through metacognition and writing center tutorials.

E146
Speakers: Malcolm Campbell, University of Mississippi
LaToya Faulk, University of Mississippi
Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	99

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 99

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

B.28	 Political Empathy: Writing for Change in Diverse
Classrooms and Cultures

Empathy pedagogies are used to examine the personal, social, and
rhetorical functions of writing in support of cross-cultural understanding.

F151
Speakers: Lisa Blankenship, Baruch College, City University of New
York, "Narrative Argument and the Politics of Empathy"
Julia Kiernan, Kettering University, "Transnationalism as Empathetic
Pedagogy"
Eric Leake, Texas State University, "Critical Reflection and Teaching in
the Modes of Empathy"
Respondent: Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University
7-Institutional and Professional

B.29	 Creating Change in Writing Centers through Labor
Research and Activism

This panel outlines our study on the personal, professional, and
programmatic risks resulting from contingent writing center positions.

C124
Chair: Liliana M. Naydan, Penn State Abington
Speakers: Dawn Fels, University of Pittsburgh
Margaret Herb, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga
Respondent: Clint Gardner, Salt Lake Community College
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.30	 Facilitating Political Discourse in the Classroom

This panel explores how instructors might integrate conversations
surrounding the US political climate.

A104
Chair: Jeanette Lehn, Florida State University
Speakers: Adriana Gradea, Illinois State University, "Including Post/
Communist Rhetorical Analyses in Rhetoric and Composition
Pedagogies"
Mara Grayson, Teachers College, Columbia University; Pace University,
"Racial Literacy in the Composition Classroom: Developing Discursive
Practices through Critical Writing and Textual Analysis"
Mariam Kushkaki, Arizona State University, "Content, Culture, and
Cultivation: A Culturally Sustaining Pedagogy for First-Year
Composition"
Stephen Whitley, Collin College, "Coercion or Cultivation? Navigating
Political Minefields in the FYC Classroom"
100

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 100

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

B.31	 Under Pressure: Challenges in Writing Program
Administration

Panel will share strategies for productive collaboration and innovation in
varied contexts of Writing Program Administration.

E148
Chair: Barbara L'Eplattenier, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Ellen Cecil-Lemkin, Florida State University, "Cultivating
Collaboration and Distributing Power in Writing Program
Administration"
Liberty Kohn, Winona State University, "Does Past Graduate Training in
Writing Instruction Change Tenured English Profs' Writing Instruction,
and Can a (Non)-WPA Influence Tenured Profs' Teaching Practices?"
Karla Lyles, University of Mississippi, "Where Standardization and
Creativity Meet: Cultivating a Culture of Innovation among Writing
Program Administrators and Teachers"
Lizbett Tinoco, University of Texas at El Paso, "Cultivating Voices:
Changing Perceptions of Writing Program Administrators at
Community Colleges"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.32	 Serving the Underserved

This panel presents complex strategies for supporting historically
marginalized backgrounds in the classroom.

A103
Chair: Dana Elder, Eastern Washington University
Speakers: Jennifer Escobar, Moreno Valley College, "Engaging
Underserved Students by Using Relevant and Inclusive Readings and
Reading Strategies in Composition"
Tara Hembrough, Southeastern Oklahoma State University, "Creating
Change: Supporting Native American Student Veterans in the FYC
Classroom"
Christopher Parsons, University of Michigan, "Writing Better When It
Matters: Ideologies about Gender and Writing from an Interview Study
with Late-Career High School Students"
Tori Peters, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Writing, Welfare, and
Rhetorical Awareness in First-Year Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	101

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 101

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

B.33	 Critical Issues in Multimodal Composing

Panelists confront institutional and technological challenges in multimodal
research, teaching, and authorship.

B111
Chair: Michelle Blake, West Chester University of PA
Speakers: Elisabeth Buck, University of Massachusetts Dartmouth,
"Rhetoric and Composition Scholars on the Status of Academic
Publications: Cultivating Digital Future(s)"
Jason Loan, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "Cultivating
Rhetorical (Media) Archaeology: The Dead, the Ephemeral, and
Multimodality"
Stuart Selber, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"Cultivating Supportive Institutional Environments for Multimodal
Projects"
7-Institutional and Professional

B.34	 Cultivating Interinstitutional Capacity in an Urban Writing
Ecology
This session maps the writing ecology connecting our city's community
college and university, identifying unrecognized transfer capacity.

E147
Speakers: Nic Contreras, University of Utah
Shauna Edson, University of Utah
Nathan Overturf-Lacy, University of Utah
Wes Porter, University of Utah
Sandra Salazar-Hernandez, University of Utah
Christie Toth, University of Utah
Justin Whitney, University of Utah
2-Basic Writing

B.35	 Implementing Directed Self-Placement (DSP) at Different
Contexts: The Struggles and Successes
This session will discuss student self-placement into first-year writing
classes at different contexts and inform the attendees about DSP.

D133
Chair: Aparna Sinha, California State University, Maritime Academy
Speakers: Pat Burnes, University of Maine, "Helping At-Risk Students
through DSP"

102

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 102

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Michael Cripps, University of New England, "Cultivating DSP in the
Context of Post-SAT Writing Placement and the Elimination of NonCredit Basic Writing"
Thomas Friedrich, Plattsburg State University of New York, "Responding
to Austerity at a Regional Comprehensive: DSP Program Creation as
'Community of Practice'"
Martha Schaffer, Case Western Reserve University, "DSP Assessment:
How Novice Writers Can Revise a Writing Curriculum"
3-Community, Civic & Public

B.36	 Issues of Public Health: Strategies for Public Intellectual
Work
Various perspectives on the idea of the public intellectual.

B110
Chair: Jess Boykin, Arizona State University
Speakers: Jessie Casteel, University of Houston, "The Public (Intellectual)
Health Crisis: Rhetoric, Objectivity, and Vaccines"
Stephen Cohen, University of Louisville, "Cultivating Inclusive
Prevention Policies: Re-Reading 'Risk' in CDC PrEP Prescription
Guidelines"
Sarah Warren-Riley, Illinois State University, "Extending the Good of
Public Rhetorics Scholarship: Strategies for Intervention beyond
Academic Walls"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.37	 Re-Placing Literacy: Cultivating Spaces for Alternative
Literacies in the Writing Classroom

Inviting nonacademic literacies into the classroom can enhance learning
for marginalized groups, but can also provoke student resistance.

A107
Speakers: Chelsea Lonsdale, Henry Ford College, Dearborn, MI,
"Minimal Effort, Maximum Conflict: Resistance and Alternative
Literacies"
Amanda Sladek, University of Nebraska at Kearney, "Engaging Basic
Writers with a 'New Literacies Narrative'"
Brittney Tyler-Milholland, University of Kansas, "Complicating the Rural
Binary with a 'Place and Space Analysis'"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	103

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 103

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

8-Language

B.38	 "I guess I'm the ESL person": Politics of Institutional
Identity and Change-Making for L2 Specialists at Smaller
Institutions

This roundtable brings together lone L2 specialists to discuss the challenge
of working alone and the possibilities for creating change.

Portland Ballroom 255
Speakers: Rebeca Fernández, Davidson College
Suzanne Fontaine, Harvey Mudd College
Mellissa Martinez, Claremont McKenna College
Shawna Shapiro, Middlebury College
Mark Shea, Mount Holyoke College
James Wright, Transylvania University
Jennifer Eidum Zinchuk, Elon University
6-Information Technologies

B.39	 Cultivating Capacity in Open-Access Publishing: The
Next 20 Years of the WAC Clearinghouse

This panel will reflect on developments in open-access publishing over the
past 20 years and consider promising directions for the next 20.

Portland Ballroom 258
Chair: Susan McLeod, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Cheryl Ball, West Virginia University, "Banding Together with
Vega: Independent Journal and Press Partnerships"
Mike Palmquist, Colorado State University, "Open-Access Books: The
Art, Craft, Theory, and Economics of the Publishing Collaborative"
Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro, "OpenAccess Journals: Beyond Volumes, Issues, and ISSNs"
Respondents: Charles Bazerman, University of California, Santa Barbara
Will Hochman, Southern Connecticut State University
Joan Mullin, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis

104

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 104

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

B.40	 Cultivating Faculty Development via Online Writing
Instruction: A Story of Mentorship and Collaboration

This panel discusses the importance of mentorship and collaboration in
developing hybrid composition courses at a large, state university.

D138
Speakers: Doreen Deicke, San Francisco State University
John Holland, San Francisco State University
Tara Lockhart, San Francisco State University
Ron Richardson, San Francisco State University
Martha Rusk, San Francisco State University
Michael Shannon, San Francisco State University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

B.41	 New Alliances: Computer Science Illuminates Linguistic
Patterns in Student Essays
We will discuss computational linguistics that highlights patterns in
student essays taken as a large corpus of text.

B115
Chair: Duncan Buell, University of South Carolina
Speakers: Duncan Buell, University of South Carolina, "Natural
Language Processing to Analyze FYC—Its Power and Limitations"
Chris Holcomb, University of South Carolina, "Cultivating FYC through
Big Data Analytics"
Thomas Peele, The City College of New York, "Cultivating Part-Time
Faculty Expertise in Corpus-Driven Studies"
8-Language

B.42	 Identity, Code-Meshing, and Cultural Specificity in
Multilingual Students' Language Practices

These panelists look at the ways in which identity and cultural specificity
affect multilingual pedagogy and writing.

B112
Chair: Jennifer Light, Indiana Wesleyan University
Speakers: Charissa Che, University of Utah, "Cultivating Chinese Voices:
Heritage Identities and Multilinguality at the American University"
Jung Sook Kim, The Ohio State University, "Reclaiming Identities
through Critical Language Awareness in Second Language Pedagogy"
Travis Leake, California State University, Los Angeles, "Reimagining
Article Acquisition Techniques for Slavic Native ELLs"
Kay Losey, Grand Valley State University, "How Does Code-Meshing
Improve Student Writing? Exploring the Effectiveness Question"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	105

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 105

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

B.43	 International and Multilingual Students in the Writing
Center

Speakers discuss engaging the experiences and perspectives of students
and administrators.

D140
Chair: Carrie Bailey, University of Phoenix
Speakers: Ibtissem Belmihoub, North Dakota State University, Fargo,
"What to Expect When You Don't Know What to Expect: Analysis of
International Student Experiences at Writing Centers"
Mihaela Giurca, University of Washington, "Pedagogy in the Writing
Center: Using Course Design and Active Learning Principles to
Support English Language Learners"
Jialei Jiang, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Writing Centers'
Support of Multilingual Writers: A Survey on Writing Center
Administrators"
12-Theory

B.44	 My Ol', Queer, Kentucky Home: Teaching, Theorizing, and
Cultivating Queer Archives
This panel seeks to analyze the use of queer Kentuckian archives and their
impact in FYC, local communities, and beyond.

C123
Speakers: Michael Baumann, University of Louisville, "Teaching with
Queer Archives in FYC"
Sherrie Gradin, Ohio University
Caleb Pendygraft, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Bluegrass Blues:
Trauma in Queer, Rural Literacy Archives"
Travis Rountree, University of Louisville, "Engaging Queer Archives:
Analyzing and Celebrating LGBTQ Artifacts"
3-Community, Civic & Public

B.45	 Cultivating Ecological Community Literacies in School
Gardens

This panel reviews projects in school gardens that apply ecological
approaches to literacy, build community, and improve civic engagement.

E142

106

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 106

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Chair: Veronica House, University of Colorado Boulder
Speakers: Carla Sarr, University of Cincinnati, "Grounded Rhetoric:
Planting Sustainability at School"
Kelly Shea, Seton Hall University, "Cultivating Service in a Campus
Garden"
Stephanie Wade, Unity College, "Root Systems: Creating and Sustaining
Community Connections via School Gardens"
Sarah Young, Arizona State University, Phoenix, "Common Ground: The
School Garden for Interdisciplinary Project-Based Learning"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.46	 Cultivating a Generative Support Pedagogy:
Understanding Veteran Identities in Writing Classrooms
and Programs
This panel cultivates a more thorough understanding of student veteran
identities to locate areas of pedagogical change in writing programs.

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Katt Blackwell-Starnes, Lamar University, Beaumont, TX
Cassandra Branham, University of Central Florida
Kathryn Broyles, American Military University, Charles Town, WV
Lydia Wilkes, Idaho State University
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

B.47	 Past the Law: Moving from Legal to Just in Disability
Accommodations

Questioning ableist discourses of accommodations via new rhetoric that
focuses on advocacy over obligation.

F150
Chair: Brenda Brueggemann, University of Connecticut
Speakers: Rhea Yablon Kennedy, Gallaudet University, "A Heightened
Sense of Justice: Leaps toward Universal Design in Multimedia
Communications"
Sushil Oswal, University of Washington, "Institutional Policies, Advocacy,
and Academic Needs: Accommodational Rhetoric Intersecting
Disability Support Services, Faculty, and Students with Disabilities"
Tonya Stremlau, Gallaudet University, "Unringing the (A.G.) Bell: Deaf
Community Advocacy for Language Access"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	107

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 107

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

12-Theory

B.48	 Remixing, Sampling, and Cultural Assemblages

Panelists explore the personal and political rhetorical practices of remixing
and assemblage.

D132
Chair: Erin Breaux, South Louisiana Community College
Speakers: Eric House, University of Arizona, "Jackin' for Beats: Realizing
the Inventive Possibilities of Hip-Hop Compositions"
Travis Maynard, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Cultivating
Assemblage Practice via an Animated Short"
Liz Rohan, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Eminem's Notebooks:
Teaching Rhetoric and the Power of the Personal"
10-Research

B.49	 Assessment from Varied Institutional Perspectives

Speakers present research on assessment from across disciplines and
institutional positions.

C122
Chair: Karla Knutson, Concordia College
Speakers: Rachel Briney, Brigham Young University, "Not Seeing Eyeto-Eye: How Compositionists and Applied Linguists View and Assess
Student Texts Differently"
Jessica Downey, Miami University, "Learner Responses to Global
Englishes: A Negotiated, Sociocritical Language Curriculum"
Grant Eckstein, Brigham Young University, "Not Seeing Eye-to-Eye:
How Compositionists and Applied Linguists View and Assess Student
Texts Differently"
Jamal Khlifat, University of Colorado Boulder, "Evaluation of Training
Student Reviewers for the Purpose of Enhancing Writing Quality in
ESL Writing Classes"

108

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 108

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

B.50	 New and Alternative Assessment Strategies

These presentations approach assessment from a proactive angle,
including local responses to national initiatives.

C126
Chair: Damián Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Joelle Adams, Santa Monica College, "Assessment and
Feedback in the Equitable Composition Classroom"
Amanda Athon, Governors State University, University Park, IL,
"Cultivating Habits of Mind through Writing Assessment"
Carl Whithaus, University of California, Davis, "Digital beyond the
Digital: Situated Writing Assessments as Alternatives to SBAC and
PARCC"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	109

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 109

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

C Sessions: 1:45–3:00 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Accessibility

C.01	 Acknowledging and Facilitating Invisible Disabilities in
the Classroom and Community
Focusing on learning disabilities, affective and sensory conditions,
and autism, this Cultivate session will foster awareness of
neurodiversity in the classroom and will cultivate community around
accessibility options for students with invisible disabilities. The goal
of this interactive session is for everyone to gain increased openness
toward others they might have previously misunderstood and become
conscious of their own position within a varied cognitive landscape.
Participants will leave with tools and insights to create more equitable
conditions for learning. Additionally, during the session, we will work
together to produce a list of possible practice/policy changes, areas
for further study, and resources to share; this list will be continuously
updated and made available to all, even those not in attendance.

Portland Ballroom 256
Facilitators: Ellen Birdwell, Alvin Community College
Natalie Malin, Texas Woman's University
Madaline Walter, Benedictine College, Atchison, KS
Cultivating Graduate Programs and Two-Year College Faculty
Preparation

C.02	 What's the Point of the MA in Composition Studies?
Cultivating a Sustainable Future for Graduate
Programs and Two-Year College Faculty

The spaces between MA in composition programs and faculty
positions in two-year writing programs are fertile but largely
uncultivated, as campuses and programs struggle to sustain themselves
amid increasingly unfavorable budgetary and political environments,
all the while dealing with diminished enrollment in the humanities.
Programs, students, and faculty lose with this insularity. This session
will draw on the resources of two- and four-year writing faculty, MAin-composition program directors, and graduates of those programs to
cultivate spaces for interinstitutional collaboration.

Portland Ballroom 257

110

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 110

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Facilitators: Maggie Cecil, California State University, San
Bernardino
Chloe de los Reyes, California State University, San Bernardino
Carol Haviland, California State University, San Bernardino
Darin Jensen, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Nathan Jones, California State University, San Bernardino
Stephen Ruffus, Salt Lake Community College
Christie Toth, University of Utah
Think Tank on Taking Action as an Organization

C.03	 CCCC Public Policy Think Tank

Professional organizations are expected to issue responses to events
that come to the attention of national and international media relevant
to their areas of commitment and expertise. While CCCC has a long
history of preparing and issuing resolutions and statements addressing
such matters (e.g., language rights, working conditions for writing
teachers, writing assessment), it lacks a nimble means by which to
address developments of concern to its membership that merit quick
response.
  This will be a working session in which attendees will participate
in developing a set of concrete proposals for how CCCC might be
enabled to take quick and appropriate action in response to issues of
concern to its membership relevant to its area of commitment and
expertise. Specifically, this Think Tank will be devoted to identifying
and articulating
•	 the range of concerns arising in the public media to which CCCC
as an organization should respond;
•	 the organizational mechanisms by which CCCC might determine
how best to respond to such matters;
•	 the forms such responses might take.

Portland Ballroom 251
Facilitators: Matthew Abraham, University of Arizona
Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Bruce Horner, University of Louisville
John Trimbur, Emerson College
Nancy Welch, University of Vermont, Burlington

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	111

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 111

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.04	 Cultivating Indigenous Rhetorics through Three Sisters
Methodologies
Sponsored by the American Indian Caucus
This session uses the concept of Three Sisters companion planting to
cultivate Indigenous rhetorics by established and emerging scholars.

B113
Chair: Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH
Speakers: Catheryn Jennings, Michigan State University, "The Sooner
State: Settler Colonial Rhetoric, the Tourist's Gaze, and Oklahoma
Heritage Tourism"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, "Cultivating the 3Rs:
Respect, Reciprocity, Responsibility as Indigenous Practices in the
Academy"
Jaquetta Shade, Michigan State University, "Cultivating Community
Literacies through Indigenous Food Rhetorics"
Cindy Tekobbe, The University of Alabama, "MazaCoin: A Story of
Techno-Capitalism, Popular Journalism, and Indigenous Sovereignty"
Luhui Whitebear-Cupp, Oregon State University, "The Murder of Anna
Mae Pictou Aquash: The American Indian Movement, Internalized
Colonization, and a Rhetoric of 'Tradition'"
Respondents: Lisa King, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Malea Powell, Michigan State University
Roundtable Leader: Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, "Klosh
Tumtum/Good Thoughts: Indigenous Rhetorics as Intertribal
Language"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.05	 Digital, Apostolic, Mystical, Embodied: Religious
Women's Disarticulating Rhetorics

Sponsored by the Rhetoric and Religious Traditions Standing Group
Rhetoric and Religious Traditions sponsored panel about the
disarticulating public rhetorics of religious women.

C124
Chair: Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Speakers: Mary Juzwik, Michigan State University, "Rhetorical Practices
and Mystical Connections: Comparing the Spiritual Legacies of Simone
Weil and Evelyn Underhill"
Annie Kelvie, University of Illinois, "Eshet Chayil: Taking Back the
Proverbs 31 Woman in a Shifting Faith"
Mari Ramler, Clemson University, "#toplessjihad"
Jonathan Stone, University of Utah, "From Ordination to Apocalyptic
Revelation: Women's Apostolic Voices at the Fringes of Mormonism"

112

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 112

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.06	 Pedagogy, Place, and Public Memory: Cultivating
Feminist, Hip-Hop, and Queer Archival Research
Methodologies

This panel engages with archival research to discuss pedagogy, place, and
public memory in marginalized communities.

C123
Speakers: Victor Del Hierro, Michigan State University
Rebecca Hayes, Michigan State University
Vani Kannan, Syracuse University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.07	 Places and Spaces

This panel examines both local and virtual pedagogies in pursuit of
situated student learning.

D134
Chair: Délice Williams, University of Delaware
Speakers: Brandie Bohney, Indiana Tech, "Use Your Words! Audio and
Video Feedback for Better Student Revisions"
Jens Lloyd, University of California, Irvine, "Campus Connections:
Rewriting Pedagogical Environments in Lower-Division Courses"
Scott Rogers, Pacific Lutheran University, "'You Are Here': Exploring
Space and Difference via Interactive New Media Composing"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.08	 Cultivating a Space for Everyday Writing

This panel explores artifacts of everyday writing and argues that such an
exploration provides a more robust understanding of writing.

D139
Speakers: Joseph Cirio, Florida State University
Jacob Craig, College of Charleston
Jeffrey Naftzinger, Florida State University
Erin Workman, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Respondents: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	113

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 113

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

10-Research

C.09	 Research on Alternative Genres and Methods in the
Writing Classroom

Panelists share findings from studies of patchwriting, reader reports, and
construct-centered research projects to provide insights about effective
peer review practices.

C125
Chair: Pamela Bromley, Pomona College, Claremont
Speakers: Lindsay Illich, Curry College, "Reading the Work of Others: A
Study on Meaningful Peer Review"
Jamie Peterson, Kent State University, "Who Says What and Why It
Matters: A Look into College Writing Classroom Assessments"
Mary Lourdes Silva, Ithaca College, "Anchoring in Patchwriting: An
Exploratory Study of FYC Student Citation Practices"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.10	 Cultivating Responsive Pedagogy: Diving in with the
Habits of Mind in the Two-Year College

Examines the connection between habits of mind and challenges in writing
courses, suggesting tactics to foster these characteristics.

E145
Chair: Nancy Sommers, Harvard University
Speakers: Amy Flessert, Northern Virginia Community CollegeAnnandale
Christine Kervina, Northern Virginia Community College-Annandale
Amy Patterson, Moraine Park Technical College
Cheri Spiegel, Northern Virginia Community College-Annandale
7-Institutional and Professional

C.11	 Cultivating Continuity across Community College Writing
Contexts: A Threshold Concept at the Intersection of ALP,
ESL, FYC, and Literature
Community college instructors explore course boundaries by examining a
single threshold concept in student writing from five courses.

D131
Speakers: Ruth Holmes, Lord Fairfax Community College, "Rhetorical
Choice in ALP"
Frost McLaughlin, Lord Fairfax Community College, "Rhetorical Choice
in Literature"
Miriam Moore, Lord Fairfax Community College, "Rhetorical Choice in
ESL"

114

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 114

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Jennifer Schaefer, Lord Fairfax Community College, "Rhetorical Choice
in FYC"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.12	 Community Engagement and Critical Inquiry

This panel explores community as a topic of inquiry; presenters share
strategies and assignments for engaging the community.

A103
Chair: Krystin Gollihue, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Jessica Bannon, University of Indianapolis, "Fostering
Community Engagement through Local Qualitative Research"
Gavin Hurley, Lasell College, Newton, MA, "Faithful, Reasoned Writing:
Belief, Religion, and Rhetorical Argumentation in the Composition
Classroom"
Kaya Oakes, University of California, Berkeley, "Profile Writing in
Composition: Escaping the Classroom"
13-Writing Programs

C.13	 Cultivating Feminist Leadership in Writing Programs and
Beyond
We draw on scholarship and experience to consider ways that women
administrators can cultivate the leadership needed for success.

F151
Chair: Peggy O'Neill, Loyola University Maryland
Speakers: Angela Crow, James Madison University, "Excluding WellIntentioned Others: Learning to Assess Risk More Accurately"
Letizia Guglielmo, Kennesaw State University, GA, "Walking Away as a
Feminist WPA"
Cindy Moore, Loyola University Maryland, "'Some of This Stuff Really
Can't Be Taught': Reconciling Feminist Leadership Mentoring with the
'Born Leader' Archetype"
Peggy O'Neill, Loyola University Maryland, "Using Feminist
Repurposing to Shape Writing Program Leaders"
Annette Powell, Bellarmine University, "How Does Our Intersectionality
Impact the Possibilities for Change?"
Elizabeth Wardle, Miami University, "Double Binds: Constraints as a Call
to Institutional Activism"
Respondent: Hildy Miller, Portland State University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	115

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 115

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

10-Research

C.14	 Gifts, Heritage, Habit: How Literacies Move among
Writers

This panel shows how multilingual literacies passed among migrant
writers as gifts, family heritage, or writerly habit change as they move.

E143
Speakers: Florianne Jimenez, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "The
Role of Peers in Literacy Strategies"
Eugenia Krichevsky, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Immigrant
Literacy Heritage"
Rebecca Lorimer Leonard, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Literacy's Relay Nature"
Angela Rounsaville, University of Central Florida, "Intergenerational
Literacy Transfer"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.15	 What Transfers? Developing Research Instruments to
Assess Whether Comparative Genre Analysis Helps
Students Transfer Rhetorical Knowledge across Contexts
Evaluating survey instruments designed to assess whether students are
prepared to transfer rhetorical knowledge from FYC to future academic
work.

B114
Chair: Joanna Wolfe, Carnegie Mellon University
Speakers: Ana Cooke, Carnegie Mellon University, "'Troubling'
Comparative Genre Analysis"
Danielle Wetzel, Carnegie Mellon University, "Do Students Perceive
Comparative Genre Analysis as a Transferable Method?"
Laura Wilder, University at Albany, SUNY, "Describing the Signposts
That Signal Positive Transfer"
Joanna Wolfe, Carnegie Mellon University, "Does Comparative Genre
Analysis Prepare Students to Analyze Unfamiliar Writing Prompts?"
10-Research

C.16	 Learning from Our Elders: Qualitative Studies of Literacy
in Later Life
With findings from four studies of elders' literate activities, this panel
examines how literacy shapes and is shaped by old age.

E142
Chair: Kristine Blair, Youngstown State University
Speakers: Lauren Bowen, University of Massachusetts Boston, "The Next
Great Leap"
116

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 116

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Suzanne Rumsey, Indiana University–Purdue University Fort Wayne,
"Holding on to Literacies"
Allegra Smith, Purdue University, "Creating Usable Interfaces to Facilitate
Literacies"
Yvonne Teems, Hofstra University, "Testing the 'Limits of the Local' with
Seniors' Literacy/Body Practices"
12-Theory

C.17	 Furthering Available Means: Gathering Women's and
Feminist Rhetorics to Cultivate Capacity and Create
Change

A dialogue between pairs of anthology editors explores how gathering
women's rhetorics expands possibilities for rhetorical participation.

Portland Ballroom 253
Chair: Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University
Speakers: Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University, "Creating Change:
Furthering Available Means across Generations"
Joy Ritchie, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Cultivating Capacities:
Anthologizing to Theorize an Emerging Field"
Kate Ronald, Miami University, Oxford, OH, "Cultivating Capacities:
Gathering to Sponsor New Rhetorical Participation"
Shari Stenberg, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Creating Change:
Transversing Gender and Geography"
10-Research

C.18	 Mapping Transnational Literacies: Cultivating
Translingual Perspectives of Textual Practice in Our
Research and Teaching
This panel articulates a "mobile literacies" framework for tracing
translingual practices across transnational networks.

E144
Chair: Paul Prior, University of Illinois
Speakers: Steven Fraiberg, Michigan State University, "Startup
Nation: Studying Transnational Literacy Practices in Israel's Startup
Ecosystem"
Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida, Orlando, "Reassembling
Translingual Practice and Identity: Tracing Trajectories of Images
across Temporal, Spatial, and National Borders"
Xiaoye You, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, "Hot Pot
Literacy: Mapping out Literacy Networks at a Chinese International
School"
Respondent: Paul Prior, University of Illinois

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	117

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 117

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Tribute Session
Tribute Session: Richard Ohmann

C.19	 "As If History Had Causes and We Might Be Agents":
The Public Intellectualism of Richard Ohmann
Panel addresses Richard Ohmann's influence as historian of English
Studies, journal editor, and social movement scholar and activist.

D136
Speakers: Christopher Carter, University of Cincinnati
Russel Durst, University of Cincinnati
Patricia Harkin, retired
Richard Ohmann, Wesleyan University

6-Information Technologies

C.20	 The Changing State of Research in Online Writing
Instruction

Twenty-five years of OWI research helps us change our teaching, expand
our capacity for understanding, and cultivate new areas of research.

F150
Speakers: Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University
Kimberly Fahle, Old Dominion University
Heidi Harris, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Jason Snart, College of DuPage, Glen Ellyn, IL
5-History

C.21	 Historical Frameworks for Cultural and Material
Productions

Drawing on a range of cultures and material artifacts, presenters on this
panel connect rhetorics of production with the making of multidimensional
meaning.

B110
Chair: Bonnie Boaz, Virginia Commonwealth University
Speakers: Diann Baecker, Virginia State University, St. Petersburg,
"Writing with Scissors: Scrapbooks as Rhetorical Heirlooms"

118

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 118

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Susanna Engbers, Kendall College of Art and Design, "Quilts, QuiltMaking, and the Cultivation of Voice in the Women's Christian
Temperance Union"
Jason Markins, Syracuse University, "When Making Was All the Rage:
Reading Contemporary Maker Movements alongside the Arts and
Crafts Movement"
Jill Morris, Frostburg State University, "Early 20th-Century Disaster
Shows as Multimedia Rhetoric"
8-Language

C.22	 Writing for Publication as Multilingual Undergraduate
Students
This 75-minute session focuses on experiences of three multilingual
undergraduate students who write for publication.

D135
Chair: Pisarn Bee Chamcharatsri, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque
Speakers: Monica Garcia, University of New Mexico, "Beyond the
Language Issues"
Adnan Mohammad, University of New Mexico, "Beyond Collaborative
Writing"
Felipe Rodriguez, University of New Mexico, "Beyond Writing the
Manuscript"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.23	 Reclaiming Community to Create Change in (and for)
Higher Education

Five differently situated research projects examine the profound impact
campus-community partnerships can have on college writing instruction.

Portland Ballroom 258
Speakers: Kaitlin Clinnin, The Ohio State University
Lucas Corcoran, The Graduate Center, CUNY
Andrea Efthymiou, Hofstra University
Jenn Fishman, Marquette University
Laura Matravers, University of Louisville

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	119

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 119

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.24	 All Together Now: Collaboration in the Writing Classroom
This panel will delve into the nuanced dimensions of collaboration.

D132
Chair: Nahla Hoballah, Eastern Washington University
Speakers: William Duffy, University of Memphis, "Teaching
Collaboration as a Noninstrumental Technology"
Ruby Pappoe, University of Texas at El Paso, "Using Online Participatory
Skills to Cultivate Student Collaboration"
Victoria White, University of California, Davis, "Process and Product:
Assigning and Assessing Collaborative Writing"
8-Language

C.25	 Cultivating Capacity for Translingual and Transmodal
Research Methods
Research methods for examining the intersection of translingual and
transmodal communication and composing.

D133
Speakers: Alanna Frost, University of Alabama in Huntsvile, "PhotoElicitation Interviews (PEI) with Chinese Students"
Evgenia Gulyaeva, Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy
and Public Administration (RANEPA), "Making Meaning with Total
Linguistic Fact in Global English Contexts"
Suzanne Malley, Columbia College Chicago, IL, "Sensory Ethnographic
Methods: Creating Translanguaging Knowledge"
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.26	 Latinx Youth Cultivating Anti-Neoliberal Rhetorics

This panel explores how Latinx youth respond and challenge oppressive
legislation through linguistic and rhetorical practices.

A106
Speakers: Genevieve Garcia de Mueller, University of Texas Rio Grande
Valley
Juan Guerra, University of Washington, Seattle
Cruz Medina, Santa Clara University, CA
Ana Milena Ribero, Oregon State University

120

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 120

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.27	 Cultivating a Capacity for Change Using Translanguaging,
Style, and Rhetoric at HSIs
Our panelists use translingualism, grammar coupled with stylistics, and
ethnic rhetoric to argue for a translanguaging pedagogical approach.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Sonia Arellano, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University, "Translanguaging
as a Rhetorical Strategy for Reversing the Ill Effects of Assimilation"
Shane Teague, Texas State University, "Translingual Orientations to
Writing Instruction in Hispanic-Serving Institutions: Negotiating
Difference, Culture, Power, and Language in Unique Contact Zones"
Megan A. Walker, Texas State University, "Toward an Inclusive
Stylistics Pedagogy: Cultivating Metalinguistic Skill in Multicultural
Composition Classes"
Respondent: Laura Gonzales, The University of Texas at El Paso
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.28	 Agents of Change: Service-Learning in Composition
Classrooms to Engage, Inspire, and Empower
Marginalized and Underserved Students

This session discusses ways to employ service-learning as an innovative
pedagogy, specifically to close equity gaps and empower students.

A107
Chair: Melanie James, Moreno Valley College
Speakers: Jade Hidle, MiraCosta College, "Literature and the Lanai:
Empowering Experiential Learning with Pacific Islander Students"
Melanie James, Moreno Valley College, "Agents of Social Change: Social
Justice, Student Equity, and Compositional Authority"
Jacob Strona, MiraCosta College, "Empowering Student Voices: Bridging
the Credit/Non-Credit Chasm through Service-Learning"
Syndee Wood, MiraCosta College, "Service-Learning and the Real World
Value of English Class"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	121

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 121

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.29	 Evaluating Reflections in First-Year Composition:
Enacting Metanoic and Kairotic Thinking

This panel will open up a discussion of the concepts of metanoia and
kairos in relation to reflection in FYC classrooms.

A108
Speakers: David Boeving, Eastern Michigan University, "Meta-thought
for the Exploration of New Literacies: Teaching Metanoia and Paranoia
in FYC"
Joseph Montgomery, Eastern Michigan University, "Zines as Grounded
Reflection: Creating Change through Content and Process"
Chris Stuart, Clemson University, "Ludic Reflections: Cultivating RiskTaking through Metanoic Process"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.30	 Participation, Collaboration, and Student Discourse
This panel will help attendees distinguish between types of student
engagement in the writing classroom.

C126
Chair: Bahareh Alaei, Mt. San Jacinto College
Speakers: David Boyles, Arizona State University, "Fertile Fields and
Feral Children: Cultivating the Rhetorical Practices of Participatory
Cultures in the Writing Classroom"
Michelle Gibeault, University of Arkansas, "RSS Feeds for Investigating
Discourse Communities in the Composition Classroom"
Michel LaCrue, University of Arkansas, "RSS Feeds for Investigating
Discourse Communities in the Composition Classroom"
Mary Stewart, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Designing Effective
Activities for Interactive Learning in Technology-Mediated FYC:
Cooperation, Coordination, and Collaboration"
13-Writing Programs

C.31	 Five Years of Writing Program Excellence

This roundtable includes WPAs from seven programs that were recipients
of the CCCC Writing Program Certificate of Excellence from 2011 to
2016.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Dominique Zino, LaGuardia Community College (CUNY)
Speakers: Jennifer Campbell, Roger Williams University,
"Metacognition"

122

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 122

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Melinda Knight, Montclair State University, "Collaboration"
Tim McCormack, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, "Consistencyand-Coherence"
Jim Nugent, Oakland University, Rochester, MI, "Kairos"
John-Michael Rivera, University of Colorado Boulder, "Innovation"
Shevaun Watson, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Research"
Julia Willis, University of Colorado Boulder, "Relationship"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

C.32	 Cultivating Feminist Pedagogical Approaches to Digital
Archives
New feminist models for undergraduate and graduate pedagogical
practices involving digital archives.

B116
Speakers: Heather Adams, University of Alaska Anchorage, "Backchannel
Archives: Rethinking Undergraduate Inquiry and the Writing
Internship"
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, "Crowdsourcing Suffragists:
Recovering Forgotten Picketers in the Undergraduate Rhetoric
Classroom"
Michelle Smith, Marist College, "Preserving Public Memory: Leveraging
the Local and the Digital in the University Archive"
Pamela VanHaitsma, Old Dominion University, "Digital Curation:
Collecting Archives for Graduate Research on Women's Rhetorics"
7-Institutional and Professional

C.33	 Collective Action to Improve Faculty Working Conditions

Panelists offer four perspective on initiatives to enact professional change
beneficial to students' learning.

B112
Chair: Steven Katz, Clemson University
Speakers: Louise Bown, Salt Lake Community College, "Cultivating
Capacity, Creating Change: A New Rank Advancement Process at Our
Community College"
Aaron Krall, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Organizing Work: Faculty
Unions, Higher Education, and the Capacity for Change"
Halle Neiderman, Kent State University, "Understanding and Combatting
Higher Administrations' Misunderstandings of Composition"
Cynthia Ris, University of Cincinnati, "When Interests Conflict: Faculty
as Agents of Change in the Development of Online Teaching and
Learning"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	123

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 123

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

8-Language

C.34	 Policies and Publics in Multilingual Research

Speakers discuss public engagements with language and policy in
academia, communities, and media.

B117
Chair: William Lalicker, West Chester University, PA
Speakers: Katherine Flowers, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"Navigating Monolingual, Multilingual, and Translingual Orientations
in Local Language Policy: A Case Study of Anti-English-Only
Activism"
Tim Green, University of Michigan, "Unearthing the Roots of Public
Controversy: Language Ideology and Ethical Composition Instruction"
Hua Zhu, Miami University, "Toward a Critical-Dramatistic Analysis of
Rhetoric: Studying Ideological Representations of China in Online
News Reports"
6-Information Technologies

C.35	 Approaches to Making Meaning with "New" Media

Presenters interrogate grammars and rhetorics of digital assemblage.

B111
Chair: Dalel Serda, College of the Mainland, Texas City, TX
Speakers: Erin Kathleen Bahl, The Ohio State University, "Untangling
Webtexts: Investigating Multimodal Scholarship through Digital
Autoethnography"
Michael Black, University of Massachusetts Lowell, "Studying Digital
Literacy Using the Internet Archive and Geocities"
Kevin Brock, University of South Carolina, "Treating Code as a
Persuasive Argument"
Brett Oppegaard, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "Bundled Together, but
Inseparable No Longer: Experiments in Using Mobile Apps to Examine
Mobile Media for Informal Learning"
Michael Rabby, Washington State University, "Bundled Together, but
Inseparable No Longer: Experiments in Using Mobile Apps to Examine
Mobile Media for Informal Learning"

124

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 124

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

C.36	 Disturbin' the Peace: Theorizing Hip-Hop Community
Protest, Revolution, and Activism

This panel argues that hip-hop culture inclusively cultivates future writers,
scholars, and leaders and promotes social justice.

E146
Speakers: Tessa Brown, Syracuse University, NY
Marcos Del Hierro, University of New Hampshire
Michael Gallaway, University of Texas at San Antonio
Alexis McGee, University of Texas at San Antonio
3-Community, Civic & Public

C.37	 Prison and Detention: Rethinking Borders and Access

Panelists attend to issues of social justice and racism in the criminal justice
system.

A109
Chair: Jason Hoppe, United States Military Academy
Speakers: Bruce Bowles, Texas A&M University–Central Texas, Killeen,
"Racism In, Racism Out: Masking Racism in the Criminal Justice
System through 'Objective' Risk Assessment Tools"
Alexandra Cavallaro, California State University, San Bernardino,
"Cultivating Citizenship in the Prison Literacy Classroom"
Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University, "Borders and Access:
Immigration and Composition"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.38	 Cultivating New Possibilities through Dual-Enrollment
First-Year Writing

We focus on the impact on local students and teachers of a large dualenrollment program at an urban, Hispanic-serving public institution.

B118
Speakers: Mike Creeden, Florida International University
Vernon Dickson, Florida International University
Kimberly Harrison, Florida International University
Preston Scanlon, Miami Dade Public Schools

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	125

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 125

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.39	 Teaching with Technology: Approaches for Online, Onsite,
and Hybrid Teaching
Strategies for research and teaching using technology in digital
environments are emphasized in this session.

A104
Chair: Jenn Sloggie-Pierce, Old Dominion University
Speakers: Chris Gerben, St. Edward's University, "(Re)Claiming ProjectBased Learning for the Composition Classroom"
Mary Gray, University of Houston, "Sustaining Innovation: Results from a
Hybrid, Online Studio–Supported First-Year Writing Course"
Cat Mahaffey, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, "Design Once,
Teach Twice: Flexible Course Design for Online and Onsite Teaching"
Kristen Miller, Tuskegee University, "Using Social Media to Help
Students Incorporate Writing Feedback"
13-Writing Programs

C.40	 Online Writing Instruction and the Changing Role of the
Writing Program Administrator
This panel discusses online writing instruction and the challenges and
opportunities it presents to Writing Program Administrators.

E147
Speakers: Glenn Lester, Park University, Parkville, MO, "Cultivating
Instructor Agency in Enterprise Model Online Writing Course Design"
Amy Mecklenburg-Faenger, Park University, "Comparing Apples and
Horses: Developing Mechanisms for Fairly Evaluating Online Versus
Face-to Face Instruction"
Emily Sallee, Park University, "The Politics of Change in Online Writing
Program Administration: Aligning Administrative and Academic
Priorities for Student Success"
12-Theory

C.41	 Rhetorics of Disability: Cultivating Change across
Discourse Communities and Developing Connections for
Receptivity
This panel explores disability rhetorics in popular and academic cultural
arenas to bring awareness of representation and inclusivity.

Portland Ballroom 254

126

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 126

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Speakers: Kristeen Cherney, Georgia State University, "Cultivating
Digital Inclusion: Assessing the Challenges of Digital Classroom Texts
and Inclusivity on the Web"
Kristen Ruccio, Georgia State University, "Surfing for Exploitation:
Representations of Disability in Social Media Memes"
Kat Weigle, University of Texas at San Antonio, "Marking the Invisible:
Self-Stigmatization and Combatting Rhetorical Disability"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.42	 Do Boot Camps Work? Creating and Assessing the
Conditions for Productive Graduate-Student Writing

A study of graduate student writers' Boot Camp experience to determine
its effects on their relationship to writing.

E141
Chair: Liz Tinelli, University of Rochester
Speakers: Rachel Lee, University of Rochester
Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester
Liz Tinelli, University of Rochester
9-Professional and Technical Writing

C.43	 Composing with and Responding to Audio and Written
Feedback in Technical and Professional Communication
Perspectives on work with audio and written feedback in technical and
professional communication.

C122
Chair: Robert Koch, University of North Alabama
Speakers: Shuwen Li, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Cultivating
Students' Ethos: Using Performative ePortfolio in Professional and
Technical Writing Class"
Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling Green,
"Speaking Out about Listening In: Cultivating Capacity for Audio
Response on Students' Written Assignments"
Megan Voelkel, George Mason University, "Constantly Drafting:
Workplace Writing and Feedback"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	127

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 127

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

C.44	 Basic Writing Gone, Placement Broken: Reinventing
Assessment and Instruction in the Anti-Remediation Era
Writing teachers respond to the elimination of basic writing and the
invalidation of their placement measure with innovative practices.

A105
Chair: Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University
Speakers: Laura Field, Montclair State University, "How We Talk about
Ourselves: Instruction in the Corequisite Workshop"
Jennifer Holly-Wells, Montclair State University, "The Plan for
Supplementary and Corequisite Instruction Using Multiple-Measures
Placement"
Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University, "Evaluating the Workshop and
Corequisite Model for Basic Writing"
Catherine Keohane, Montclair State University, "The Politics of
Remediation: From Basic Writing to Corequisite Courses"
Rick Reid, Montclair State University, "How We Talk about Ourselves:
Instruction in the Corequisite Workshop"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

C.45	 Cultivating Collaboration between Writing Studies and
Engineering
This panel considers collaboration between engineering and writing
faculty, and how together they advance the goals of the university.

D137
Chair: Jennifer Mallette, Boise State University
Speakers: Jennifer Mallette, Boise State University
Hongxing Qi, The University of British Columbia
Michael Schoen, The University of British Columbia
Tatiana Teslenko, The University of British Columbia
Elaine Wisniewski, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
13-Writing Programs

C.46	 Issues in Peer and GTA Training for Writing Centers

Strategies that help writing centers train tutors to navigate challenging
pedagogical topics will be shared.

F152
Chair: Moushumi Biswas, University of Texas at El Paso

128

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 128

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Speakers: Scott Chiu, California Lutheran University, "Directing a New
Writing Center as a Cultivating Project on Campus"
Joshua Hilst, Utah Valley University, "Ask Me No Questions: Pushing
Back on Minimalist Tutoring in the Writing Center"
Melissa Keith, Boise State University, "The Affective Dimension of the
Professional Development of Graduate Student Administrators in a
Writing Center Community of Practice"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.47	 WID Faculty Development for All: Cultivating Part-Time
and Satellite-Campus Faculty across Disciplines
This panel will discuss the challenges faced by a WID faculty
development program attempting to meet the needs of satellite faculty.

D138
Chair: Andrew Cook, Limestone College, "Foundations to Driving
Change in Faculty Development"
Erin Pushman, Limestone College, "Changes at Home and Abroad:
Cultivating WID Faculty Development at Main and Satellite
Campuses"
Frances Salamon Cook, Johnson and Wales University, "Building
Connections among Faculty"
12-Theory

C.48	 Pop Culture, Power, and Rhetorical Resistance

This panel explores moments of rhetorical subversion and resistance in
popular culture.

D140
Chair: Brian Lewis, Century College
Speakers: Luc Chinwongs, North Dakota State University, "Beautiful Boy
Soldiers: Kaoru Shintani's Area 88 and the Negotiation of Japanese
Postwar Masculinity"
Sarah Jackson, The Ohio State University, "Beyond the 'Bumper Sticker':
An Ideographic Analysis of Disney's Zootopia"
Michael Kailus, University of Central Missouri, "'I am made of love, and
I'm stronger than you': Queering American Superhero Mythology in
Rebecca Sugar's Steven Universe"
Edward Lee, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "Assigning Meaning to the
Rhetorical Dimensions of K-Town Reality Show"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	129

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 129

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

12-Theory

C.49	 Writing, Rhetoric, and the Sensing/Feeling Subject

Panelists discuss the role of sensory and emotional responses to/in rhetoric
and composition.

E148
Chair: Beth Maxfield, Henderson State University
Speakers: Adam Cogbill, University of New Hampshire, Portland,
"Fostering Working Alliances: The Implications of Intersubjectivity
Theory for Writing Instruction"
Christina Haas, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, "The Feeling of
Writing: Toward a Sensorium of Writing"
Sheryl Ruszkiewicz, Oakland University, "The Roles of Mindfulness and
Playfulness in Rhetorical Analysis"
Chris Scheidler, University of Louisville, "Touching and Hearing the
Writing Feel(s)"
12-Theory

C.50	 Process Pedagogy after Postprocess: Improvisational,
Relational, Ecological

Advances new "writing as a process" pedagogies in light of postprocess,
postpedagogical, new materialist, and ecological theories.

B119
Chair: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Speakers: Christina LaVecchia, University of Cincinnati
Hannah Rule, University of South Carolina
John Whicker, Fontbonne University
Respondent: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.51	 Considering Comics in College Composition and
Communication
Four takes on comics in rhetorical studies and composition.

C121
Chair: Elliot Reed, University of Florida
Speakers: Michelle Cohen, The Ohio State University, "The Audible
Hand: What Comics Can Tell Us about Composition"
Sergio Figueiredo, Kennesaw State University, "Cultivating a Rhetoric
of the Senses: A Networked Historiography of Rudolphe Töpffer's
'Modest Art'"

130

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 130

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 1:45–3:00 p.m.

Oriana Gatta, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "(Un)McClouded
Conflict: Comics and/as Critical Pedagogy"
Michael Sutcliffe, Portland Community College, "Visualizing Democracy:
Graphic Novels and Journaling to Cultivate Critical Conversations
about Racism and Justice"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

C.52	 Content Conflict: An Argument for Alternative
Approaches to "Writing about Writing"

An argument that supports the rhetorical dexterity of WAW but proposes
alternative content that more fully considers the needs of students.

B115
Chair: Sam Morris, University of Arkansas
Speakers: Erin Daugherty, University of Arkansas, "Writing Past Conflict,
Writing for Your World"
Logan Hilliard, University of Arkansas, "Creatively Composing: Engaged
Liberation in First-Year Composition"
Sam Morris, University of Arkansas, "Gladdening the Process: Voice,
Social Identity, and Young Adult Literature"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

C.53	 The New Reach of CCCC: Cultivating Transnational
Conversations and Collaborations

Presentations on three recent collaborative projects on pedagogy, outreach,
and program development in the United States, Mexico, and South Africa.

C120
Chair: John Bean, Seattle University, WA
Speakers: María de Lourdes Caudillo Zambrano, Universidad
Iberoamericana, "Whose WPA?: Collaborative Transnational
Development of Writing Programs in Mexico"
Susan Meyers, Seattle University, "Writing beyond the Classroom: The
Pedagogy of 'Transnational Selves'"
Elsa Oliveiera, University of Witwatersrand, "Cultivating Community:
Personal Writing as LGBTQ Activism in South Africa"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	131

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 131

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

D Sessions: 3:15–4:30 p.m.
Poster Sessions
Portland Ballroom Lobby
Where Are the Women? Gender and Citation in Rhet-Comp ANT
Scholarship
A study of citation patterns through the lens of gender in the text Thinking with
Bruno Latour in Rhetoric and Composition.
Joseph Torok, Wayne State University
Implementing Course Contracts in FYC at the HSI Two-Year College
Implementing course contracts into FYC pedagogy at HSI community colleges reconciles historical and racial injustices that devalue process, progress,
and production, i.e., the labor of writing, in favor of "traditional" final product
grading as the single end goal.
Clayton Nichols, Arizona Western College
Deliberating the Future (of Driving): Productive Speculation and the
Practice of Framing
This session demonstrates one way of facilitating deliberative discourse among
strangers about a polarizing future public controversy.
Christina Santana, Arizona State University
Cultivating WAC Rhetorical Knowledge through First-Year Writing
Poster Assignments
An investigation into WAC rhetorical situations through a FYW research poster
assignment and student conference.
Albert Wray, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Conscientiously Creating Conditions for Successful Collaboration in a
Technical Communication Service Course
Poster shares a three-pronged approach developed over three years to support
successful collaboration in a tech comm service course.
Debra Purdy, Boise State University
Embodied Learning and the Writing Classroom: Advocating Efficacy
through the Body
Research, theory, and experiences of study participants advocate further engagement of embodied learning in the writing classroom.
Jennifer Tobin, Harrisburg Area Community College

132

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 132

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Fostering Grit in the Classroom: Understanding Student Perceptions of
Failure
This work examines "grit" as an indicator of success while discussing the
benefits of class-supported failure in cultivating grit.
Megan Palmer, Southern New Hampshire University
Reaching Capacity in Multimodal Projects: Students' Perceptions of
Digital Storytelling
This project examines students' perceptions of multimodal projects as used in a
research writing course.
Crystal Bickford, Southern New Hampshire University

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Intersectional Approaches to Academic Labor

D.01	 Working and Getting Worked: An Interactive,
Decolonial, Queer, and Feminist Roundtable on
Labor in Rhetoric and Composition

Addressing the need for deeply intersectional approaches to issues
of academic labor and building upon earlier cross-caucus work in
this area, our Cultivate session aims (1) to shed light on how larger
social and cultural problems of White supremacy, settler colonialism,
neoliberalism, sexism, transphobia, ableism, and classism, among
other political and social forces, pervade the workings of the
academy; and (2) to cultivate relationships and materials that bring
an intersectional perspective and sustainable approaches to labor
issues within the conference space, in classrooms, at universities,
across campuses, and in personal lives. This roundtable begins with
a collaboratively produced framework that situates the contexts and
logics of "Othered'' women's labor in the academy. Next, facilitators
will engage attendees through series of questions and through texts,
objects, and experiences that further consider the dimensions of
"Othered" women's labor in rhetoric and composition. The goal of
this session is to provide an interactive experience that considers
the complex dimensions of women's labor in the profession and
purposefully cultivates community around and through intersectional
women's identities inside and outside of the discipline.

Portland Ballroom 256
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	133

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 133

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Chair: Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University
Facilitators: Casie Cobos, independent scholar, Houston, TX
Kate Firestone, Michigan State University
Gabriella Gutiérrez y Muhs, Seattle University
Franny Howes, Oregon Tech
Stephanie Mahnke, Michigan State University
Ersula Ore, Arizona State University-Tempe
Patricia Poblete, Iowa State University, Ames
Dora Ramirez, Boise State University
Flourice Richardson, Illinois State University
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Tech
Aimee Suzara, Independent Author and Arts Educator
Respondents: Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University
Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
Cultivating Personal and Professional Development for
Non-Tenure-Track Faculty

D.02	 Cultivating Balance: Personal, Research, and Teaching
Strategies for Contingent Faculty
In this Cultivate session, join with colleagues to discuss and develop
creative responses to issues of life and career for contingent faculty.
Brief presentation of ideas and innovations around balancing work
and life, maintaining a research agenda, and countering the pernicious
effects of underemployment will be followed by three roundtable
discussion sessions wherein participants can share and gather useful
strategies and ideas.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Seth Kahn, West Chester University, PA
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College
Melody Niesen, University of Central Missouri, Warrensburg
Cultivating Inclusive Writing Instruction

D.03	 Decolonizing Writing Assignments

In this facilitated discussion, participants will collaborate on
decolonizing writing assignments, particularly for institutions or
classrooms situated in transnational spaces. Our experiences teaching
at an American branch campus in Qatar have made us think more
deeply about the ways we cultivate connections between home
literacies, first languages, and the writing classroom, and we are eager
to invite others' contributions into this conversation. Specifically,
we're wondering about others' answers to these two questions: in
what ways can we cultivate home literacies and languages in writing
assignments, and what happens to our teacher identity/authority

134

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 134

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

when we don't speak our students' first language or share their home
literacies? We hope participants will leave the session with renewed
commitments and action plans for inclusive writing instruction for
multilingual writers, for welcoming home/indigenous languages
and literacies into the classroom, for experimenting with multiple
strategies that work best for our different contexts, or even for
learning how to make sense of our own discomfort with the challenge
of decolonizing writing.

Portland Ballroom 253
Facilitators: Amy Hodges, Texas A&M University at Qatar
Khadija Mahsud, Texas A&M University at Qatar
Mysti Rudd, Texas A&M University at Qatar

13-Writing Programs

D.04	 Preparing for Writing Center Leadership Roles

Sponsored by the International Writing Centers Association
Leaders will describe their varied administrative roles and invite a
discussion of how to best prepare (as) future writing center leaders.

Portland Ballroom 251
Speakers: Julia Bleakney, Elon University
Shareen Grogan, National University
Jackie Grutsch McKinney, Ball State University
Rebecca Hallman Martini, University of Houston
Amber Jensen, George Mason University
Karen Johnson, Shippensburg University, PA
Lindsay Sabatino, University of North Carolina at Greensboro
Trixie Smith, Michigan State University
8-Language

D.05	 Cultivating Conversations with HBCUs: Afrocentric
Pedagogy, Language, and Writing Program
Administration

Sponsored by the Black Caucus
This roundtable offers areas for pedagogical consideration at HBCU
writing program sites in relation to Students' Right to Their Own
Language (SRTOL).

Portland Ballroom 252
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	135

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 135

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Speakers: Collin Craig, St. John's University
Jason DePolo, North Carolina A&T State University
David Green, Howard University, Washington, DC
Karen Jackson, North Carolina Central University
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Faye Spencer Maor, North Carolina A&T State University
10-Research

D.06	 Retention, Persistence, and Writing Programs

Sponsored by the Council of Writing Program Administrators
This panel invites participants into a conversation about the role of writing
programs in university efforts to retain students.

C123
Chair: Heidi Estrem, Boise State University
Speakers: Sarah Harris, College of the Sequoias, "Success"
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin, Marathon County, "Faculty
Development"
Rita Malenczyk, Eastern Connecticut State University, "Surveillance"
Sarah Snyder, Arizona State University, "Data"
Respondent: Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.07	 Cultivating Creative Rhetorical Inquiry: Crafting Social
Justice through Poetry, Fiction, and Filmmaking

We explore the hybrid and creative strategies rhetoricians undertake to
blend their scholarly output with fiction, poetry, and filmmaking.

D139
Speakers: Steven Alvarez, St. John's University, "Crafting Ethnopoetry:
Ethnography, Ethnopoetics, and the Study of Writing"
Kate Birdsall, Michigan State University, "Blurring Boundaries, Becoming
(An)other: 'Doing' Social Justice with Autoethnography"
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University, "The Hybrid Liminal
Scholar: A Video Exploration of Blending Our Personal and
Professional Lives"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.08	 Cultivating Virtues

In this panel, the presenters examine the role of virtue and virtue ethics in
teaching writing.

C120

136

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 136

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Chair: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame
Speakers: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University, "Cultivating the Virtue of
Intellectual Humility"
John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, "Cultivating the Virtue of
Incivility"
John Gallagher, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Cultivating
the Virtues of Patience and Persistence"
John Schilb, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Cultivating the Virtue of
Nuance"
2-Basic Writing

D.09	 Alternative Connections to Basic Writers

This panel explores alternative means of engaging students through new
theories and recovered texts.

A109
Chair: Aimee Mapes, The University of Arizona
Speakers: Wiley Davi, Bentley University, "Neuroscience and the Basic
Writing Classroom"
Hope Parisi, Kingsborough Community College/CUNY, "Engaging (and
Crossing) Public Intellectual Traditions of Education Writing and Basic
Writing's 'Documented Narrative': Cultivating Our Stories and Our
Scholarship"
Chad Seader, Syracuse University, "Performing a Stance: Enacting
Alternative Pedagogies with Attention to Transfer and Assessment"
13-Writing Programs

D.10	 What Can We (Not) Do? A Report from a Developing
Writing Center

A new writing and communication center seeks to establish a unique
institutional identity and implement innovative methodologies.

E147
Speakers: Andrea Bishop, University of Memphis
Chuck Robinson, University of Memphis
Scott Sundvall, University of Memphis

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	137

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 137

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

12-Theory

D.11	 Genre Activists

This panel theorizes how genres are questioned, criticized, and reinvented
by critical participants for activist aims.

A108
Speakers: Risa Applegarth, University of North Carolina at Greensboro,
"Queer Genre Work"
Erin Branch, Wake Forest University, "Food Activism in New Genres"
Lindsay Russell, University of Illinois, "Genre Invention"
Respondent: Chelsea Milbourne, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill
7-Institutional and Professional

D.12	 Preparing Graduate Students to Labor in the Field

Presenters discuss ways to better prepare and mentor graduate students to
teach, thrive, and succeed in a field fraught with labor problems.

Portland Ballroom 254
Chair: Casie Fedukovich, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Steve Fox, Indiana University–Purdue University Indianapolis,
"Preparing Masters Students for the Labor Market: Perspectives from
an MA Program"
Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University, "Integrating Labor Issues
in Graduate Curriculum: On Making the Unspoken Spoken"
Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University, PA, "Integrating Labor Issues in
Graduate Curriculum: On Making the Unspoken Spoken"
Jessica Philbrook, Walden University, "Bridging the Gap between
Graduate Students and Contingent Faculty"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.13	 Objects of Justice: Four Riffs on Politics and Materiality
Our panel brings together diverse research sites and methods to explore
objects of justice in everyday publics and politics.

E146
Speakers: Lindsay Marshall, University of Illinois at Chicago, "The
Material of Disease"
Nadya Pittendrigh, University of Houston-Victoria, "Residues of
Sovereignty in Social Justice"
Candice Rai, University of Washington, "Objects of (In)Justice in the
Global University"
Respondent: Matthew Pavesich, Georgetown University, "Charting
Material Invention"

138

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 138

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

8-Language

D.14	 Multimodal Writing and Multilingualism

This panel discusses various multimodal approaches to teaching
multilingual writing.

B117
Chair: Michael Edwards, Washington State University, Pullman
Speakers: Mathew Sillito, University of Utah, "Translingualism Online:
Developing Proactive Approaches to Online Curricula That Utilize
Translingualist Pedagogies"
Adam Sprague, Bowling Green State University, "Teacher Action
Research as Agent for Change: Utilizing Teacher Action Research
to Improve ESL Students' Comfort and Achievement Levels in the
Writing Classroom"
Tamara Warhol, University of Mississippi, "Social Networking Socializing
ESL Writers"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.15	 Teaching with Wikipedia: Cultivating Community,
Creating Change

In this panel, presenters share their work and facilitate discussion on the
benefits and challenges of teaching with Wikipedia.

Portland Ballroom 255
Speakers: Amy Carleton, MIT
David Cregar, New York University
Greta Kuriger Suiter, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Cecelia A. Musselman, Northeastern University
Rebecca Thorndike-Breeze, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
10-Research

D.16	 Tracing the Impact of Undergraduate Research in Writing
Studies
Our panel offers data-driven answers to the question, "What impact is
undergraduate research having on rhet-comp/writing studies?"

E142
Chair: Jenn Fishman, Marquette University
Speakers: Dominic DelliCarpini, York College of Pennsylvania
Jane Greer, University of Missouri, Kansas City
Megan Schoettler, Miami University of Ohio

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	139

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 139

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.17	 Embodied Exposition: Theater in the Composition
Classroom

Faculty who teach expository writing to BFA students explore the
experiential uses of theater and performance principles in composition.

B116
Speakers: Megan Shea, New York University, "Affective Research:
Hacking the Chore of Inquiry"
Michael Tyrell, New York University, "The Sound of Drama: Reading and
Voiced Texts"
Christopher Wall, New York University, "Through the Side Door:
Inductive Introduction of Concepts through Visual Complexity"
Ethan Youngerman, New York University, "Beyond Conversation:
Dramatic Dialogue as Experiential Textwork"
6-Information Technologies

D.18	 Cultivating Code Literacy

Two presenters tell stories of learning to code and investigating
applications for wearable devices. A third responds as a seasoned
programmer.

D133
Chair: David Blakesley, Clemson University
Speakers: David Blakesley, Clemson University, "Augmenting (Rhetorics
and) Realities: Developing for the Microsoft Hololens"
Ann Hill Duin, University of Minnesota, "Investigating Wearables for
Composition Pedagogy"
David Rieder, North Carolina State University, "Adventures in Coding"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.19	 Cultivating STEM-Writing Success through Diagnostic
Assessment, Genre Analysis, and Writing Centers

Panel discusses three approaches to writing pedagogy that support success
and retention of STEM students throughout their college careers.

A106
Chair: Natasha Artemeva, Carleton University
Speakers: Natasha Artemeva, Carleton University, "From Diagnosis to
Support: Targeting the Writing Development of First-Year Engineering
Students for Retention and Success"

140

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 140

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Dana Ferbrache-Darr, The Ohio State University, "Writing Centers and
STEM Writing: Meeting the Needs of Graduate Students in STEM
Fields"
Janna Fox, Carleton University, "From Diagnosis to Support: Targeting the
Writing Development of First-Year Engineering Students for Retention
and Success"
Katherine Schaefer, University of Rochester, NY, "Working with
Disciplinary Experts: Using a Rhetorical Genre Analysis Approach to
Teaching 'Writing Up Your Research' in Biology"
5-History

D.20	 Composing Activist Spaces: The Spatial Rhetorics of
Civil, Disability, and Men's Rights Movements

This panel investigates how activists compose new meanings of space to
argue for inclusion, rights, and justice.

F149
Speakers: Elizabeth Ellis, University of Maryland
Evin Groundwater, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Ruth Osorio, University of Maryland, College Park
Respondent: Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.21	 Using Rhetoric to Promote a Nurturing Space for
Disproportionately Impacted Student Groups in
Community College First-Year Composition (FYC)

This panel explores equity-minded pedagogy in the first-year composition
classroom that engages disproportionately impacted students.

B114
Chair: Jorge Villalobos, MiraCosta College
Speakers: Erica Duran, MiraCosta College, "Cultivating Their Strengths:
How Flipping the FYC Course Advantages Student Veterans"
Brandon Reynolds, California State University San Marcos, "Cultivating
Student Discussion on Race through Monster Narratives"
Monica Rodriguez, Palomar College, "Using the Rhetoric of Mêtis to
Nurture Student Trust and Dialogue"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	141

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 141

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

9-Professional and Technical Writing

D.22	 Local and Global Demands on Technical and Professional
Communication across Contexts in Latin America
This panel examines local and global demands on communication
practices in Spanish for engineering and public health across Latin
America.

F151
Chair: Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Rachel Bloom-Pojar, University of Dayton, "¿Tienes diabetes
o Tienes azúcar? Negotiating Spanishes in a Transnational Health
Program"
Julie Gerdes, Texas Tech University, "Countering Narratives with Shared
Metaphor Systems: An Analysis of the 2016 Zika Outbreak"
Elizabeth Narváez-Cardona, Universidad Autónoma de Occidente,
Colombia, "Characterizing Senior Writing of Colombian Industrial
Engineers"
Lucia Natale, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento, "The
Challenges of Reporting the Professional Practice in Engineering in
Argentina"
12-Theory

D.23	 Mobile Interactivity as Public Writing Practice

This panel advances rhetorical theories of mobile composition genres such
as augmented reality, knowledge games, and interactive memorials.

B118
Speakers: Sidney I. Dobrin, University of Florida
Steven Holmes, George Mason University
Sean Morey, University of Tennessee-Knoxville
John Tinnell, University of Colorado Denver
8-Language

D.24	 Negotiating Language Identities: Language Narratives,
Translingual Englishes, and the Writing Goals of
International Students

Student language narratives negotiate language identities and challenge
categories ("international," "native") in US classrooms.

D135
Chair: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York
Speakers: Jonathan Hall, York College, City University of New York,
"Everyday Translingualism: Language Narratives and Negotiated
Language Practices"

142

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 142

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Nela Navarro, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, "Negotiating
Language Goals: Language Identities, Ideologies, and Practices of
International Students as Challenges for 'English-Only' Writing
Programs"
Heather Robinson, York College/CUNY, "Translanguaging and the Art of
Negotiation"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.25	 Locations of Change: Cultivating Intellectual Exchange
among Communities

Panelists offer strategies for intergenerational interactive work in rhetoric/
composition and writing studies theory and practice.

F152
Chair: Laura Micciche, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Jennafer Alexander, University of Missouri–Saint Louis
Mary Boland, California State University, San Bernardino, "Cultivating
Exchange: When Composition Graduate Students and Faculty Across
the Disciplines Collaborate"
Suellynn Duffey, University of Missouri–St. Louis, "Beyond the Waves:
Rhetorics of Intergenerational Feminisms"
John Hanly, Monmouth University, "Can Senior Seminar Become a Site
for the Intellectual Work of Composition? Cultivating Reflection on
Composition, Rhetoric, and English Studies"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.26	 Sustaining Reading and Cultivating Writing in Crowded
Digital Spaces

The panel examines collaborative meaning-making and composing
strategies for cultivating and sustaining reading practices in digital spaces.

A107
Speakers: Mary Lamb, Clayton State University, "Collaborative Reading:
Texts, Screens, and Para-readers"
Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham, "How
Writing Can Sustain Reading"
Cheryl Smith, Baruch College, CUNY, "Social Annotation for Close
Reading"
Kristen Turner, Fordham University, "Creating Connected Adolescent
Readers"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	143

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 143

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

4-Creative Writing

D.27	 The Creative Capacities of Writing Studies

Explores creativity in peripheral writing studies contexts, including
STEM, autobiography, ethnography, and creative writing pedagogy.

C124
Chair: Kevin Moore, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Creativity
and Ethics in the Engineering Writing Classroom"
Speakers: Janelle Adsit, Humboldt State University, "Is Creative Writing
Part of Writing Studies?"
Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "How the Arts Can
Inform STEM Writing: Social Practice as Threshold Concept in Writing
Studies"
Daniel Wuebben, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "Creativity and
Collaboration in Autobiographical Curriculum"
13-Writing Programs

D.28	 Peer Teaching and Tutoring Strategies in the Writing
Center and Beyond

Panelists discuss teaching for transfer, proofreading, and other response
strategies for facilitating student writing in the writing center and beyond.

E148
Chair: Emily Isaacs, Montclair State University
Speakers: Daisy Miller, Hofstra Universtiy, "Listening and Reporting:
Peer Tutors as Transfer Informants"
Heather Blain Vorhies, University of North Carolina at Charlotte,
"Challenging the Myth of Self-Correction in the Writing Center"
Carolyn Wisniewski, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Novice
Writing Teachers' and Tutors' Development of Effective Response
Strategies"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.29	 Searching Global Rhetorics, Recovering Alternative
Discourse Communities

This panel will explore alternative discourse communities that nonWestern rhetorical practices can afford in the writing classroom.

D137
Speakers: Stephen K. Dadugblor, University of Texas at Austin,
"Ghanaian Rhetorics in Contemporary Political Discourse"
Iklim Goksel, Indiana University–Purdue University Fort Wayne, "Balbal
Stones: Seeking Alternative Discourse Communities in Turkic Visual
Rhetoric"

144

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 144

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

Elif Guler, Longwood University, "Kutagdu Bilig: Rhetoric as the Study
of Finding Happiness in an 11th-Century Islamic Text"
Shurli Makmillen, Claflin University, "Rhetorics of Identity and
Identification in Indigenous Academic Writing"
Michelle Riedlinger, University of the Fraser Valley, "Rhetorics of Identity
and Identification in Indigenous Academic Writing"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.30	 Queer Pedagogies: Fostering Stronger Collaboration and
Community Engagement
Queer perspectives on approaching and enacting community engagement.

B110
Chair: Lucy Rai, The Open University
Speakers: Jennifer Ansley, Duke University, "Queer Pedagogies in the
First-Year Writing Classroom"
Amanda Fields, Fort Hays State University, "Collaborative Composing:
Social Action in an LGBTQIA+ Student Organization at a Rural State
University"
Caro Raedeker-Freitas, San Diego State University, "Hearing Queers in
the Archives: Stories of Public Subjectivities through Sound"
12-Theory

D.31	 Institutional Fatigue: Confronting Bias in Academic and
Nonacademic Workplaces

Panelists theorize and address the rhetorical/historical realities of bias and
marginalization in academic and nonacademic workplaces.

D134
Chair: Nathan Shepley, University of Houston
Speakers: Danielle Lavendier, University of New Hampshire, "Body of
Knowledge: The Teacher's Body and the Objectifying Stare"
Jean Kearns Miller, Washtenaw Community College, "Collegiality and the
Fate of Disabled Faculty"
Sarah Moseley, Old Dominion University, "Becoming Firefighters:
Women's Heritage Literacies in the Workplace"
David Wallace, California State University, Long Beach, "A Queer
Reading of the Rhetoric of Microaggressions"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	145

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 145

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

12-Theory

D.32	 Public Bias and Counterpublic Resistance

Three panelists discuss the rhetorical strategies for resisting and speaking
back to public rhetorics of bias and oppression.

D140
Chair: Adnan Salhi, Henry Ford College
Speakers: Doug Cloud, Colorado State University, "Resisting Change:
Rhetorical Strategies for Revealing/Concealing Animus in Public
Arguments about LGBTQ People"
Holly Fulton, Arizona State University, "Cultivating Thick Understandings
of Race in the Composition Classroom through the Cross-Pollination of
Public Spheres"
Sarah Puett, University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, "Literacy of
Counterpublics: Ethnographic Studies of Local Resistance"
6-Information Technologies

D.33	 Deploying Feminist Rhetorical Strategies Online

Presenters analyze gender virtual spaces to illuminate their oppressive and
empowering qualities.

B112
Chair: Jacqueline Amorim, Florida International University
Speakers: Christine Jeansonne, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge,
"Creating Communities: Feminist Rhetorical Strategies for Composing
Together Online"
Stephanie Weaver, University of Louisville, "Screencapture or It Didn't
Happen: The Multimodal Citation Practices of GamerGate"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.34	 Theories of Grammar and/or Style

This panel examines the benefit of renewed attention to style versus
grammar in developing students as writers.

D132
Chair: Pavel Zemliansky, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Keith Comer, Massey University, "Writers' Interactions
with Grammar and Style Checking Applications: Not Drowning but
Waving"
Keith Rhodes, University of Denver, "Feeling Our Way toward
Engagement: Teaching Written Style as Culturally Structured Intuition"
Brandy Scalise, University of Kentucky, "'I am a writer': Rhetorical
Grammar and Student Agency"

146

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 146

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.35	 Cultivating a Critical Approach to Social Media Research
in Rhetoric and Writing Studies

Our panel critically examines social media, exploring how platforms shape
data circulation, activist discourses, and exclusionary practices.

D138
Speakers: Dustin Edwards, University of Central Florida
Bridget Gelms, Miami University
Liz Lane, Purdue University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.36	 Learning to Write Disciplines: Cultivating Students'
Disciplinary Knowledge across Sites of Learning

This panel examines three sites of disciplinary learning for undergraduates
and offers strategies for furthering students' development.

B115
Chair: Gwendolynne Reid, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Rachel Buck, University of Arizona, Tucson, "Cultivating
Disciplinary Knowledge in the Composition Classroom: The
Challenges and Rewards of Using MICUSP"
Gwendolynne Reid, North Carolina State University, "Of Whales, Hearts,
and Databases: An Undergraduate's Rhetorical Education in and out of
the Lab"
Robin Snead, University of North Carolina, Pembroke, "The Spaces
within and between: Rhetorical Borderlands in Disciplinary Writing"
5-History

D.37	 Global Sites of Rhetorical Histories

Presenters on this panel map new locations toward the goal of an inclusive
historiography of rhetoric.

B111
Chair: Erin Kelly, University of Victoria
Speakers: Lisa Arnold, North Dakota State University, "Uncovering
Transnational Literacy History: Beirut's 'Muslim Crisis' of 1909"
Natalia Avila, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, "What We Talk
about When We Talk about Writing Studies in Latin America"
Erin Cromer, Purdue University, "(Re)Historicizing Transnational
Rhetorics: Cultivating Methodologies of Historiographical Integration"
Miriam Fernandez, Washington State University, "Malintzin, the Aspasia
of the Americas"
Federico Navarro, Universidad de Chile/CONICET, "What We Talk about
When We Talk about Writing Studies in Latin America"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	147

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 147

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

9-Professional and Technical Writing

D.38	 Global and Local Issues in Intercultural Communication
This panel explores intercultural communication in technical and
professional communication in local and global contexts.

C122
Chair: Jennifer Gray, College of Coastal Georgia
Speakers: Ana Codita, Case Western Reserve University, "Incorporating
Intercultural Communication in the Technical Writing Pedagogy: A
New Horizon, or a Dilemma?"
Dilli Edingo, York University, "New Media-Enhanced Intercultural
Communication: An Emic Way of Producing Knowledge and Making
Meaning"
Lehua Ledbetter, University of Rhode Island, "Cultivating Regionally
Adaptive Professional Writing Curricula: A Case Study"
3-Community, Civic & Public

D.39	 Queer Archives, Producing Public Memory, and Activism
This panel examines queer activist strategies for documentation and
circulation across several archival, multimodal, and pedagogical sites.

E145
Speakers: Angie Balsarini, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "Queer Film
and Producing Public Memory for the Queer Omaha Archives"
Tammie M. Kennedy, University of Nebraska at Omaha, "Queer Film and
Producing Public Memory for the Queer Omaha Archives"
Casey Miles, Michigan State University, "The Queer Critical Research
Practices of the Gender Project"
Laura Tetreault, University of Louisville, "Queer Digital Archives and
Activist Circulation"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.40	 Failure as Opportunity

These presentations showcase the benefits of failure in both student
learning and faculty development.

C126
Chair: Katelyn Stark, Florida State University
Speakers: Calley Marotta, University of Wisconsin, "Complicating
Failure: Toward a Situated Understanding of Failure and Difficulty in
Multimodal Classrooms"
Meredith Singleton, Miami University, "Braving the Winds of Change:
Lessons Learned from Faculty Participants in a Pedagogical Study"
Julia Smith, Georgia Institute of Technology, "Look to Your Right and
Left, One of You Will Fail: Reclaiming Failure as Opportunity in the
Multimodal Classroom"
148

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 148

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

D.41	 Now What? Creating the Post–Job Market Action Plan
Presentation on interview data from a CCCC's grant project, little
narratives, and professional sustainability.

B119
Speakers: Juliette Kitchens, Nova Southeastern University
Claire Lutkewitte, Nova Southeastern University
Molly Scanlon, Nova Southeastern University
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

D.42	 Challenges to the Field: Cultivating New Perspectives on
Persistent Issues
Panelists offer challenges to persistent issues facing members of our
discipline.

C121
Chair: Elizabeth Flynn, Michigan Technological University
Speakers: James Arrington, University of Pennsylvania, "Disciplining the
Digital"
Rebecca Garcia, California State University, San Bernardino, "Rejecting
Process, Fostering Chaos: How the Language of Writing Reinforces
Hegemony"
Joshua Kutney, Lakeland University, "(Re-)Creating Composition Studies:
A Discipline's Search for a Unifying Vision"
Alberta Ramirez, San Bernardino Valley College, "Rejecting Process,
Fostering Chaos: How the Language of Writing Reinforces Hegemony"
Jon Stansell, Belmont College, "'Voice' Is Alive Today: Steps toward
Conceptual Rehabilitation"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

D.43	 Composing Medical Humanities: Innovative Writing
Pedagogies

This panel considers innovative approaches to composing in the spaces of
interdisciplinary medical humanities outreach and instruction.

A105
Chair: Anita Helle, Oregon State University
Speakers: Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, "Contemplative
Composing for Resilience and Compassion"
George Estreich, Oregon State University, "Writing about Intellectual
Disability for a Clinical Audience: Biography of an Essay"
Anita Helle, Oregon State University, "Embodied Rhetorics and
Attunement in Reading/Writing Pedagogies"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	149

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 149

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.44	 From Culling Sources to Cultivating Successful Habits
of Mind: Reconsidering the Research Essay in the 21st
Century
We highlight ways innovative research projects provide students with
increased perspective, academic confidence, and transferable skills.

B113
Chair: Bri Lafond, Riverside City College and California State University,
San Bernardino
Speakers: Francesca Astiazaran, California State University, San
Bernardino, "Engaging L2 Learners through Multimodal Research:
#makingmeaning #usingwhatyouknow"
Ashley Hamilton, University of La Verne, "Implementing Selfe's Notions
of Aurality and Writing: Cultivating Humor in the FYC Classroom
through a Multimodal Research Project"
Bri Lafond, Riverside City College and California State University, San
Bernardino, "Thinking Outside the 'Box Logic': Curating Context in
the FYC Classroom"
Daniel Reade, Norco College, "A Steady Construction of Knowledge:
Cultivating Awareness of Conversation and Context"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.45	 Writing Program Pedagogies for STEM Education

Presenters explore pedagogies that meet the needs of STEM programs.

A103
Chair: Trevor Meyer, University of South Carolina, Columbia
Speakers: Kimberly Bernhardt, New York University Expository Writing
Program, "Accommodating Changing Student Populations: Adapting
Writing Program Pedagogy to Meet the Needs of STEM-Focused
English Language Learners"
Nathan Bollig, University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, "Cultivating
Composition Skills Across Curriculums: Recognizing and Retaining
Rhetorical Knowledge in a Writing-Intensive Engineering Course"
Susan Lang, Texas Tech University, "'You're Doing What?!': Piloting
STEM-Style Delivery of First-Year Writing"
Monica Norris, Texas Tech University, "'You're Doing What?!': Piloting
STEM-Style Delivery of First-Year Writing"
Jason Rocha, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Science as Narrative:
Toward a First-Generation STEM Literacy"

150

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 150

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

12-Theory

D.46	 Queering Public Rhetorics: Cultivating Writing
Pedagogies at the Intersections of Race, Class, Gender,
Sexuality

Bringing community-based discourses of identity into writing pedagogies
invites students to cultivate power and a public voice.

D136
Chair: Kathleen Livingston, Michigan State University
Speakers: Wonderful Faison, Michigan State University, "Race, Writing
Centers, and Composition: Subverting Racialized and Classed
Institutional Spaces"
Kathleen Livingston, Michigan State University, "Queer CommunityBased Pedagogy for Consent Education"
Molly Ubbesen, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Queering and
Querying the Practice of Preferred Names and Gender Pronouns"
Respondent: Zan Goncalves, Franklin Pierce University
13-Writing Programs

D.47	 Ecology, Uncertainty, and Agency in WAC Programs

Speakers and attendees engage in robust conversation about ecological
principles of WAC/WID across institutions and development stages.

Portland Ballroom 258
Speakers: Laura Davies, SUNY Cortland
Crystal Hendricks, Syracuse University
Brian Hendrickson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Tiffany Rousculp, Salt Lake Community College
Jason Saphara, Colorado State University-Pueblo
Christian Weisser, Penn State Berks, Reading, PA
13-Writing Programs

D.48	 Cultivating Change from the Ground Up: Models for
Grassroots Curricular Assessment

This panel presents results of three grassroots approaches to curricular
assessment, spurring change based on multiple perspectives.

E144
Speakers: Maria Conti, University of Arizona, "Rooted in the Evidence:
Student Learning Outcomes and Curriculum Assessment"
Rachel LaMance, University of Arizona, "Planting Seeds for Linguistic
and Cultural Success: Assessment of an L2 Basic Writing Course"
Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona, "Taking Time to Till
the Soil: Fostering Faculty Autonomy through Involvement in
Programmatic Assessment"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	151

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 151

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

10-Research

D.49	 Innovation, Adaptation, Transparency: Creating Change
in Writing Research Methodologies
This panel advocates and enacts new methodological models of writing
research, calling for disciplinary change, flexibility, and openness.

E141
Speakers: Elizabeth Chamberlain, Arkansas State University, "Hello,
World: Productive Intersections of Algorithmic Thinking and
Humanistic Inquiry"
Rachel Gramer, University of Louisville, "Bounding and Aligning: The
Warp and Weft of Writing Research Dissertation Methods"
Jessica Restaino, Montclair State University, "Method as Lost and Found:
Risk, Uncertainty, Knowledge-Making"
Mary P. Sheridan, University of Louisville, "Community Teach-In:
Building Methodologies in CE"
Respondent: Bob Broad, Illinois State University
13-Writing Programs

D.50	 Creating Meaningful Programmatic Assessment with the
AAC&U VALUES Rubrics
Report on survey of national use of AAC&U VALUES rubrics, two case
studies of their use, and a brief interactive workshop on adapting the
rubrics.

E143
Speakers: Nicki Litherland Baker, Fountainhead Press
Jennifer Grouling, Ball State University
Patricia Lynne, Framingham State University
Megan O'Neill, New Jersey Institute of Technology
10-Research

D.51	 Cultivating Writing Students' States of Mind

Panelists explore how student-writers' mindsets affect writing processes
and performances.

C125
Chair: Jessica Melilli-Hand, College of Coastal Georgia
Speakers: Erika Nielson, Texas State University, "Cultivating Mindfulness
and Compassion in Developmental Literacy Students"
Laura Schubert, James Madison University, "Do Fixed Mindsets Hinder
Student Writers, and How Can Writing Tutors Help Cultivate Growth
Mindsets?"
Ryan Stark, Corban University, "Spiritual Development in Undergraduate
Writing Curricula"
152

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 152

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 3:15–4:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.52	 Implications of WAC: Sites of Writing Education for and in
Scientific Majors and Programs
Presenters discuss interdisciplinary awareness in First-Year Composition.

A104
Chair: Laura Romano, Ball State University
Speakers: Sandie Friedman, George Washington University,
"Metadisciplinary Awareness: Theory and Practice for First-Year
Composition"
Ann Martin, Louisiana State University, "This Won't Hurt a Bit:
Preparing Pre-Nursing Students, Pumping Up Your University Writing
Program, and Pleasing Yourself in the Process"
Kenny Smith, University of California, Santa Barbara, "How to Write with
Statistics: Cultivating a Better Understanding of Science in the FYC
Classroom"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

D.53	 Perforating Writing Studies: Exploring Content through
Games, Networks, Software Development, and Digital
Collaboration

This panel explores shifting disciplinary definitions of writing and content
creation through pedagogical practices and curriculum design.

F150
Speakers: Jeff Greene, Kennesaw State University
Kim Haimes-Korn, Kennesaw State University
Pete Rorabaugh, Kennesaw State University
2-Basic Writing

D.54	 The Politics of Belief in Student Capacity: How Three
California Community Colleges Initiated the California
Model of Corequisite Composition
Early adopters from three colleges will share their experiences of
implementing corequisite developmental courses at their campuses.

D131
Speakers: Chris Gibson, Skyline College
Joshua Scott, Solano College
Wendy Smith, San Diego Mesa College

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	153

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 153

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

E Sessions: 4:45–6:00 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Caregiving

E.01	 Cultivating Balance in Caregiving: A CrossGenerational Conversation

Our Cultivate session involves a cross-generational conversation
taking up a phenomenon affecting all generations: all generations are
caregivers and they are caring for all other generations. Our session
begins with a brief introduction that draws on research and resources
about care, caregiving, interdependence, and disability to set the topic.
Conversation, however, will be the primary activity. Participants will
move to cross-generational tables for open discussion of scenarios
and concerns, guided by table leaders who will facilitate discussion,
take notes, and report back to the large group and to the cosponsoring
CCCCs groups: CCCC Taskforce on Cross-Generational Connections,
Standing Group on the Status of Women in the Profession, and the
Committee on Disability Issues.

Portland Ballroom 251
Chair: K. Hyoejin Yoon, West Chester University
Facilitators: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University
Kristine Blair, Youngstown State University
Jay Dolmage, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada
Candace Epps-Robertson, Old Dominion University
Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Lydia McDermott, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA
Elisabeth Miller, University of Nevada, Reno
Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University
Christine Tulley, University of Findlay
Cultivating Our Public Voice

E.02	 Cultivating a Public Voice: Entering Public Discourse
as Public Intellectuals, Experts, Activists, and Digital
Citizens

Concerned with public misconceptions about writing, the work of
rhetorical studies, and the field of composition studies, many rhetoric
and composition scholars have urged us to take up roles as public
intellectuals, experts, community activists, and digital citizens,
translating our knowledge for various publics, counterpublics, and
audiences. Now is a kairotic moment to "go public." In order to

154

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 154

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

cultivate a public voice for individual scholars, students, and the
broader field, the facilitators of this session offer examples of the
way each has worked to enter public dialogues to bring about change.
Facilitators will provide models and a process for others to follow.
Ultimately, we hope to raise the profile of the field and of teachers
and students in the discipline who wish to take on important public
discussions and raise discourse to new levels.

Portland Ballroom 252
Facilitators: Paul Butler, University of Houston, "Public Intellectuals
to the Rescue: Going Public to Promote Digital Literacy"
Frank Farmer, University of Kansas, "From Mediation to
Remediation: The Unlikely Travels of a Counterpublic Intellectual"
Dianna Winslow, Rochester Institute of Technology, "Cultivating
Public Pedagogies: The Work of Community-Engaged TeacherScholar Activists"
Respondent: Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University
Think Tank on Equity in CCCC

E.03	 Cultivating a More Equitable Professional
Organization

The goal of this session is to work with a diverse group of
participants from across identifications to develop a list of actionable
recommendations for the CCCC Executive Committee and for the
organization more generally. Building on the Cultivate session
"Working and Getting Worked: An Interactive, Decolonial, Queer,
and Feminist Roundtable on Labor in Rhetoric and Composition," this
Think Tank will start with a fifteen-minute rapid brainstorm of issues
over Google Drive. These issues will be used to develop a collectively
articulated vision statement or set of long-term goals, along with a
clear list of action items that can be immediately delivered to the EC.

Portland Ballroom 256
Facilitators: Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University
Catherine Prendergast, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University
Donnie Sackey, Wayne State University
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Tech
Bo Wang, California State University, Fresno

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	155

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 155

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

E.04	 Studies in Writing and Rhetoric: Cultivating Capacity for
Authors, Creating Change for the Field
Sponsored by the Studies in Writing and Rhetoric Series
Annual session to provide an opportunity to learn about the Studies in
Writing and Rhetoric series, as well as to meet the editor and editorial
board.

E145
Chair: Stephen Parks, Syracuse University
Speakers: Telsha Curry, Syracuse University, "Beginning a Conversation
with SWR"
Jay Jordan, University of Utah, "Cultivating Capacity: From Dissertation
to Book Proposal"
Vani Kannan, Syracuse University, "Beginning a Conversation with SWR"
Rhea Estelle Lathan, Florida State University, "Creating Change: From
Proposal to Book"
Jaquetta Shade, Michigan State University, "Producing the Future: The
Book I Need"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

E.05	 Engineering Communication and the Professional
Identities of Women in Engineering

Sponsored by the Writing and STEM Standing Group
This panel explores gender and communication in engineering using both
historical texts and experiences of women students and professionals.

F150
Chair: Marie Paretti, Virginia Tech
Speakers: Meaghan Brewer, Pace University, "Practical Genius:
Engineering, Technology, and Useful Knowledge in Godey's Lady's
Book"
Cassandra Groen, Virginia Tech, "Gender, Communication, and Identity in
Civil Engineering"
Mary McCall, Purdue University, "The Impact of the Technical/
Communication Divide on Female Engineering Identity Formation"
Lisa McNair, Virginia Tech, "Gender, Communication, and Identity in
Civil Engineering"
Sean Moxley-Kelly, Arizona State University, "Professional Identity
Sponsorship and Rhetoric of Credibility in the Society of Women
Engineers"

156

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 156

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

E.06	 Intersectionality: Rhetorics of Labor, Identity, and
Coalition Politics for Writing Studies Activists

Sponsored by the Labor Caucus
This panel examines the intersectionality of rhetorics of labor, identity, and
coalition politics for writing studies activists.

Portland Ballroom 257
Chair: Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University
Speakers: Anicca Cox, "Working the Edges: Organizing Action
Frameworks"
Craig Crowder, University of Kentucky, "Rhetorical Agency in WorkerStudent Coalitions"
Seth Kahn, West Chester University, "Trans Justice, Economic Justice:
An Intersecting Dialogue"
G. Patterson, Ball State University, "Trans Justice, Economic Justice:
An Intersecting Dialogue"
Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri-Columbia, "On Disruptive
Coalitions"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.07	 A Reasonable Faith: Rhetoric, Christianity, and the
Teaching of Writing

This panel asks that we rethink faith as a source of rhetorical theory and
practice.

B114
Chair: John Pell, Whitworth University
Speakers: Carrie Bates, SUNY Potsdam
Dana Elder, Eastern Washington University
Peter Moe, Seattle Pacific University, "Habit, Virtue, Writing"
12-Theory

E.08	 Rewriting the Political Economy of Composition

The session offers ways to rewrite the work of composition, assessment,
and writing programs by applying political economic theory.

B116
Chair: Min-Zhan Lu, University of Louisville
Speakers: Bruce Horner, University of Louisville, "English-Only
Monolingualism and the Devaluation of Composition"
Asao Inoue, University of Washington, Tacoma, "The Circulation of
Judgment and Value in the Writing Classroom"
Tony Scott, Syracuse University, "Mobilities, Crisis, and Valuation in the
Political Economies of Composition"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	157

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 157

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

8-Language

E.09	 Language and Justice in Composition Pedagogy and
Program Development

Speakers discuss issues of program development for teaching writing to
English-language learners.

C122
Chair: Matthew Bridgewater, Woodbury University
Speakers: George Bunch, University of California, Santa Cruz,
"Disciplinary Literacy for Language Minority Students in Community
Colleges"
Tyler Evans-Tokaryk, University of Toronto, "Social Justice, WAC, and
Academic Literacies: A Case Study in Knowledge Transfer between
Canadian and South African Writing Centres"
Kylie Kenner, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Disciplinary Literacy
for Language Minority Students in Community Colleges"
Nora Lang, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Disciplinary Literacy
for Language Minority Students in Community Colleges"
Christopher Micklethwait, St. Edward's University, "Combined Studio/
Stretch Model for At-Risk International Students in First-Year Writing"
Heather Schlaman, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Disciplinary
Literacy for Language Minority Students in Community Colleges"
6-Information Technologies

E.10	 Activist Rhetorics in 140 Characters

Panelists advocate for the use of Twitter in responding to injustice, trauma,
and oppression.

B112
Chair: Spencer Smith, Ohio University
Speakers: Elisa Findlay, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Digital
Micro-Activism: Dismantling Sexism One Tweet at a Time"
Megan McIntyre, Dartmouth College, "Twitter's #OpenDoor: MaterialRhetorical Agency and Altruism in the Aftermath of Terror"
Olivia Ordonez, University of Michigan, "#NotMyNHL: Context Collapse
and Online Identity"

158

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 158

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

E.11	 The Aim of Out in the Center: Cultivating Change through
Public Controversies and Private Struggles
This session examines how public controversies that enter the writing
center can cultivate capacity for individual and institutional change.

E147
Chair: Harry Denny, Purdue University
Speakers: Robert Mundy, Pace University
Liliana M. Naydan, Penn State Abington
Richard Severe, Valparaiso University
Anna Sicari, St. John's University, Queens, NY
13-Writing Programs

E.12	 Cultivating Success: Building Connections and Creating
Conditions for Change
Working to ensure our program meets the demands of students and their
future employers, we investigate the needs of the workplace community.

E146
Speakers: Patricia Welsh Droz, University of Houston–Clear Lake
Leticia French, University of Houston–Clear Lake
Lorie Jacobs, University of Houston–Clear Lake
8-Language

E.13	 Cultivating Learning through Recognition of Multilinguals'
Rhetorical Attunement across Contexts
This panel discusses multilinguals' rhetorical attunement across contexts
and pedagogies to cultivate student learning during this process.

D137
Chair: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Speakers: Eunjeong Lee, Penn State University, "Rhetorical Attunement
and Transfer: Seeing the Invisible in Multilingual Student Writing"
Ryan McCarty, University of Michigan, "Translational Learning: Bilingual
Students' Language Developments in Early College"
Shakil Rabbi, Pennsylvania State University, State College, "Learning
through Recontextualization: The Role of Rhetorical Attunement for a
Graduate Writer Writing for Scholarly Publication"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	159

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 159

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

8-Language

E.14	 Investigating Unfamiliar Genres to Promote SecondLanguage Writing Teacher Development: Novice
Teachers' Engagement with the Unfamiliar Genre Project
in an L2 Writing Teacher Education Course
We present multiple perspectives on how novice L2 writing teachers used
an unfamiliar genre project to foster professional development.

D138
Chair: Dorothy Worden, University of Alabama
Speakers: Shiao-Wei Chu, American Language and Culture Program,
University of Idaho, "Pedagogical Content Knowledge, Unfamiliar
Genres, and the Novice Teacher of L2 Writing"
Tenzin Dulal, University of Idaho, "Teaching Short Story Writing to EFL
Learners"
Lorrae Fox, University of Idaho, "Using Audio Essays to Cultivate Voice
and Self-Efficacy in ESL College Writing"
Derek Reagan, University of Idaho, "Autoethnography: Adapting an
Unfamiliar Genre for Critical Reflection and Liberatory Learning"
Dorothy Worden, University of Alabama, "Pedagogical Content
Knowledge, Unfamiliar Genres, and the Novice Teacher of L2 Writing"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.15	 Cultivating Pedagogies: Innovations in Professional
Development

Through examination of new technologies and theories, this panel
provides options for expanding faculty approaches to teaching writing.

D134
Chair: Tara Williams, California State University, Fresno
Speakers: Shannon Howard, Auburn University at Montgomery, "Are
They Really Ideas Worth Spreading? Relying on TED Talks to Teach
Research, Idea Formation, and Brainstorming"
Rory Lee, Ball State University, "The Teaching of Digital Rhetoric and the
Cultivation of an Emerging (Sub)Field"
Lisa Tremain, Humboldt State University, "We Are Engaged In Transfer,
Too: Meta-Transfer and Reflective Professional Practice in Writing
Programs and Classrooms"

160

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 160

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.16	 Building a Mentor Program: Shadow Clusters, Immersion,
and Integration
Panel discusses the shift in the mentoring program for GTAs. Changes
include shadowing, immersion, and program and course integration.

B115
Speakers: Daniel Abitz, Georgia State University
Angela Marie Christie, Georgia State University
Charles Grimm, Georgia State University
Yunye Yu, Georgia State University
12-Theory

E.17	 Charting the Audio and Cognitive in Composition and
Writing

These panelists look at ways of learning writing through audio charting
and cognitive mapping.

D140
Chair: Simone Billings, Santa Clara University
Speakers: Sara Hillin, Lamar University, "This Is Your Brain on Writing:
Exploring the Cognitive Science–Based Composition Theory of Ronald
Kellogg and Olive Thierry"
Julia Romberger, Old Dominion University, "The Environments We Write
In: Cognitive Niche Theory and Writing Practices"
Jon Wargo, Wayne State University, "Cultivating a Composition That
Listens: Sonic Literacies and Hearing Intra-Active Writing"
5-History

E.18	 Unsettling (the) Archives

Presenters demonstrate diverse approaches to using archives, both familiar
and unfamiliar to the field.

B111
Chair: Isaac Hinojosa, Texas A&M Corpus Christi
Speakers: Bradfield Dittrich, University of New Hampshire, "Texts of
Value: Edward Channing and the Product Movement"
Corey McCullough, University of New Hampshire, "Collecting Ourselves:
The National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric and the New
History"
Keith Miller, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Rethinking Malcolm X:
How Archives in Syracuse Refute the National Memory of an Icon"
Elizabeth Ashley Rea, Florida State University, "Cultivating an Ear for
Difference: Listening as Sonic Archival Practice"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	161

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 161

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

E.19	 Identity and Affect in Teacher Development

Presenters advocate improvement of writing instructor training through
cultivating teacher awareness of affect, diversity, and identity formation.

B117
Chair: Roberta Henson, Indiana Wesleyan University
Speakers: Connie Kendall Theado, University of Cincinnati, "Cultivating
Culturally and Linguistically Responsive Teaching in College Writing
Classrooms: The Teacher-Ethnographer's Notebook"
Michal Reznizki, University of San Francisco, "Cultivating Identity in the
Practicum Course"
Elizabeth Saur, Miami University, "Understanding Affect's Capacity:
Recognizing the Potential of Instructors' Affective Experiences in the
Composition Classroom"
Tatjana Shell, North Dakota State University, "Cultivating Effective
Strategies for Preparing International TAs to Teach College
Composition: What American WPAs Should Know about Us"
13-Writing Programs

E.20	 Switching the Players: Cultivating Cross-Disciplinary
Conversations around Writing

Interdisciplinary writing conversations via an interdisciplinary minor;
highlighted disciplinarity, upper-division requirement, and assessment.

F151
Chair: Lisa Lebduska, Wheaton College (MA)
Speakers: Joseph Farago-Spencer, California State University, San
Bernardino, "Approximating Disciplinary Membership in the Natural
Sciences"
Lisa Lebduska, Wheaton College (MA), "Cultivating an Interdisciplinary
Writing Minor"
Amanda Taylor, California State University, San Bernardino,
"Interdisciplinary Approaches to Disciplinary Writing"
10-Research

E.21	 Researching Multimodal Writing Assignments

This session presents research about multimodal writing assignments,
exploring how sound, image, video, and blogging impact student learning.

C126
Chair: Jeffrey Breitenfeldt, Leeward Community College

162

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 162

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Speakers: Bonnie Boaz, Virginia Commonwealth University, "Reimagining the Process Movement: Investigating Students' Processes for
Composing Multimodal Compositions"
Christopher Dean, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Blogging to
Cultivate Expert-Novices"
Barbara Gordon, Elon University, "Cultivating Learning: An Investigation
of Multimodal vs. Traditional Writing Assignments"
Jessica Gordon, Virginia Commonwealth University, "Re-imagining the
Process Movement: Investigating Students' Processes for Composing
Multimodal Compositions"
Kathleen Patterson, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Blogging to
Cultivate Expert-Novices"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

E.22	 Facilitating Transfer between Writing Center Studies and
Composition Studies

This panel reveals productive sites of collaboration between writing center
theory and comp theory.

C120
Speakers: Tyler Kaplan, Arizona State University
Sierra Lomprey, Washington State University
Kathryn Tucker, Nevada State College
10-Research

E.23	 Cultivating Big Data Collaborations: Pedagogy, Design,
Research
We report on an interdisciplinary big data project and develop
recommendations for writing studies researchers undertaking similar
projects.

E142
Speakers: Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota, "Topical
Tagging: A Digital Research Method for Disciplinary Discourses"
Travis Desell, University of North Dakota, "Integrating Interdisciplinary
Writing and Research into a Senior Computer Science Capstone
Course"
Jared Estad, University of North Dakota, "Writing up Research vs. Writing
Code for a Big Data Software Platform"
David Haeselin, University of North Dakota, "Make It So: Specialized
Vocabulary in Amateur Discourse Communities"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	163

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 163

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.24	 Impact of Dual Enrollment on First-Year Composition
Presenters discuss negotiating the complications of dual enrollment.

A104
Chair: Kelly Whitney, New Mexico State University
Speakers: Staci Bernard-Roth, Central Gwinnett High School, "Serving
Two Masters: Negotiating Contradicting Expectations in DualEnrollment Classes"
Scott Campbell, University of Connecticut, "High School Teachers in the
FYC Ecology: Revising the Terms of Contingency"
Lucia Pawlowski, University of St. Thomas, "Solidarity through
Resistance: Material Contexts in a High School–College Collaboration"
Kristen Weinzapfel, North Central Texas College, "Whose Culture
Is It Anyway? Navigating the Hidden Curriculum in Dual-Credit
Composition"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.25	 Responses to Challenges in Teaching and Learning
Non-Western/Global Rhetorics

Scholar/teachers share for discussion pedagogical implications of current
research in non-Western/global rhetorics.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Keith Lloyd, Kent State University
Speakers: Geghard Arakelian, Syracuse University
Nicole Khoury, University of Illinois, Chicago
Elizabeth Lowry, Arizona State University, Scottsdale
Adnan Salhi, Henry Ford College
Hui Wu, University of Texas at Tyler
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

E.26	 Drawn Together: Cultivating Research and Theory at the
Intersection of Rhetoric and Comics Studies
Cultivating connections between rhetoric and composition and comics
studies beyond pedagogical imperatives.

E144
Speakers: Susan Kirtley, Portland State University
Rich Shivener, University of Cincinnati
Respondent: Molly Scanlon, Nova Southeastern University

164

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 164

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

E.27 	 Breaking New Ground: Cultivating Teacher/Scholar/
Activist Development across Institutional Contexts

This panel explores ways to cultivate professional activism, support for
literacy, and teacher-scholar collaborations across institutions.

D136
Chair: Christie Toth, University of Utah
Speakers: Nicole Green, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Branching Out,
Growing Together: Toward Creating a New Secondary/Postsecondary
Collaborative Branch on the NCTE/CCCC Family Tree"
Darin Jensen, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Cultivating a New
Generation of Two-Year-College Teacher/Scholar/Activists"
Katie McWain, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "A Foot in Both Worlds:
Toward a Teacher Development Framework for Dual-Enrollment
Composition"
Amy Williams, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, "'Existing as if You
Were a God': Cultivating a Richer Understanding of Prospective
College Students' Literacy"
Respondent: Christie Toth, University of Utah
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.28	 The Play's the Thing: Cultivating Voice and Agency
through a Gaming Pedagogy

This panel will explore how games and structured play can help writers
think through processes, discover agency, and cultivate voice.

A105
Chair: Angela Green, University of Mississippi
Speakers: Thomas Bagwell, University of Mississippi
Dave Miller, University of Mississippi
Colleen Thorndike, University of Mississippi

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	165

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 165

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

9-Professional and Technical Writing

E.29	 Contemporary Issues in Technical and Professional
Communication Genres

Speakers explore theories and uses for technical and professional genres in
and beyond the classroom.

C125
Chair: Annie James, Howard University
Speakers: Brian Gogan, Western Michigan University, "Using 'White
Paper Pedagogy' to Cultivate Diversity, Inclusion, and Equity"
Lenny Grant, Virginia Tech, "Intra-Institutional Science Writing
Collaborations: A Case Study with Recommendations"
Cassandra Hockman, Virginia Tech, "Intra-Institutional Science Writing
Collaborations: A Case Study with Recommendations"
Stefanie Johnson, Adventist University of Health Sciences, "Homegrown:
Changing National Policy by Cultivating Local Genres"
3-Community, Civic & Public

E.30	 Students as "Agents of Integration" and Social Change:
Cultivating Transfer between the Classroom and
Community
Through studies of students' co- and extracurricular community
engagement, we explore ways to support transfer beyond classroom
contexts.

Portland Ballroom 258
Speakers: Sarah Hart Micke, University of Denver, "Students Teaching
Writing: Cultivating Transfer in a Community Literacy Organization"
Megan Kelly, University of Denver, "Lessons from the 'Campaign
Toolbox': What We Can Learn about Composition from Student
Activist Organizations"
Heather Martin, University of Denver, "Self-Directed Service in the
Composition Classroom: Opportunities for Agency and Transfer"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.31	 Tracing Roots, Cultivating New Growth: A Retrospective
Prospective Exploration of Transfer
Interactive session about how three instructors' roots in one graduate
program shape transfer projects at their separate institutions.

B113
Chair: Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham
Speakers: Justin Ericksen, Whatcom Community College
Samuel Johnson, Wenatchee Valley College
LeAnne Laux-Bachand, University of Washington Tacoma
166

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 166

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

E.32	 Sustaining the Myriad: Rhet/Comp Scholarly-Creatives
Talkin' That Talk

This round-robin panel elucidates the discourse of rhet/comp scholars who
develop writing voices both within and outside of rhet/comp.

C123
Speakers: Tara Betts, University of Illinois, Chicago
Todd Craig, Medgar Evers College, CUNY
Keith Gilyard, Pennsylvania State University, University Park
Gwendolyn Pough, Syracuse University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

E.33	 Approaches to Teaching Personal Narrative

Conversations that complicate the "writer" and social awareness of
undergraduate writers are considered.

A103
Chair: Diane Davis, Johnson County Community College
Speakers: Thomas Allbaugh, Azusa Pacific University, CA, "Teaching
Personal Writing, Teaching Genre: Cultivating Genre and Social
Awareness in Undergraduate Writers"
Philip Sloan, Oakton Community College, "(Re)Conceptualizing the
'Writer' in Composition Studies"
Robert Yagelski, SUNY-Albany, "Writing about More Than Writing:
Teaching Academic Writing as a Means to Well-Being"
10-Research

E.34	 Cultivating Change in Writing Assessment for LargeScale and Classroom-Based Practices

Assessment scholarship has begun to take up the challenge of ethical
writing assessment, and this panel builds upon this conversation.

E143
Speakers: Robin Gallaher, Northwest Missouri State University,
"Understanding the Role of Heuristic-Driven Decision Making in
Program Assessment Knowledge Transfer and Validity"
Leigh Graziano, University of Arkansas at Monticello, "Measuring
without Rulers: Toward a Non-Hierarchical Approach to Programmatic
Assessment"
Josh Lederman, Brandeis University, "Validity Theory and ClassroomBased Assessment"
Marc Scott, Shawnee State University, "Racialized Whiteness and Writing
Assessment: A Case for Antiracist Writing Assessment in Appalachia"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	167

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 167

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

5-History

E.35	 Balancing the Books: Political Economy and Literacy
Education across History

We consider literacy education at various moments since the late 19th
century to examine how political economy shapes teaching and learning.

B119
Speakers: Paige Hermansen, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville
Jasmine Lee, University of California, Irvine
Marcus Meade, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
13-Writing Programs

E.36	 The Utility and Assessment of Writing Centers for
Graduate Students

Presenters explore writing centers' measured capacity for graduate student
writers.

F152
Chair: David Cregar, New York University
Speakers: Anne Ernest, University of Utah, "Cultivating Writing Center
Growth through Assessment and eTutoring"
Linda Macri, University of Maryland, "Cultivating Capacity to
(Understand) Transfer: Articulating and Assessing Writing Center
Outcomes"
Jessica Newman, University of Louisville, "Beyond the Typical Session:
How Writing Centers Can Better Meet the Needs of Graduate Student
Writers"
3-Community, Civic & Public

E.37	 Methods for Community Engagement

Panelists offer three distinct methods and models for community
engagement.

A109
Chair: Ryan P. Shepherd, Ohio University
Speakers: Erin Carlson, Purdue University, "Seeing Community
Engagement through Their Eyes: Examining Student, Instructor, and
Community Partner Roles via Photovoice Reflective Methods"
McKinley Green, The University of Minnesota–Twin Cities, "Reapproaching Reciprocity: An Epistemological Model for Reciprocity in
Civic Engagement Partnerships"

168

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 168

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Jeremy Land, Baylor University, "Bridging the Gap between Poverty and
Privilege: How Writing and Community Service-Learning Works at
Baylor University"
Nora McCook, The Ohio State University, "Literacy Volunteer
Sponsorship: From Literacy Volunteerism's Past to Today's Community
Engagement"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

E.38	 Thinking Inclusively and Cultivating Empathy: Teaching
Writing to Future Professionals
This interactive panel proposes professional writing course revisions
toward cultivating inclusivity and empathy in future professionals.

D139
Chair: Kami Day, retired, Norman, OK
Speakers: Amanda Cuellar, University of Oklahoma, "Introducing
Cultural Probes in Technical Writing"
William Gerdes-McClain, University of Oklahoma, "Universal Usability
in Technical Writing"
Amanda Klinger, University of Oklahoma, "Empathy and Inclusion in the
Health Professions: Teaching Care in Communication"
Annemarie Mulkey, University of Oklahoma, "Empathy and Inclusion in
the Health Professions: Teaching Care in Communication"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

E.39	 Cultivating Community Action and Response

The panelists provide theoretical and practical resources for social
engagement.

C121
Chair: Barbara Hall, Perimeter College/Georgia State University
Speakers: Kevin Carey, Reynolds Community College, "Share Your
Work: Cultivating Communities of Labor and Care"
Russell Mayo, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Share Your Work:
Cultivating Communities of Labor and Care"
Shane McCoy, University of Washington, "How Does Social Justice
Pedagogy Affect Students? Cultivating Students' Critical Capacities for
Social Justice in Writing about Literature Courses"
Vanessa Kraemer Sohan, Florida International University, "(Un)
Conventional Means: A Case Study of Alternativity, Transcultural
Literacy, and Transmodality"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	169

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 169

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.40	 The "Poly" in Polytechnic: Teaching Rhetorical Arts to
Technical-Major Students

We propose techniques to meet the needs of writing students within
polytechnic institutions while emphasizing the value of rhetorical arts.

A107
Speakers: Genesea Carter, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "The Ongoing
Life of 'Humans of New York': Public Rhetoric Ecology and Facebook
in the Composition Classroom"
Gregory Schneider-Bateman, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "What Does
a Good Job Look Like? Engaging the Hyperpragmatic Composition
Student"
Emi Stuemke, University of Wisconsin-Stout, "Makerism, Craft, and the
Manual Training Tradition"
2-Basic Writing

E.41	 Stretching against the Grain: Blended Stretch in the 21st
Century
We will present successes and failures of the Stretch Writing Redesign
since being awarded a CCCC Research Initiative grant in 2015.

B118
Speakers: Susan Naomi Bernstein, Arizona State University
Shillana Sanchez, Arizona State University
James Wermers, Arizona State University
Respondent: Karen Dwyer, Arizona State University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.42	 A Rhetoric of Empathy to Build Audience Accessibility to
Medical Research
The speakers will discuss the process of converting medical texts to
patient manuals to include empathy to build access to medical writing.

A108
Speakers: Amy Kirsling, Northwestern University
Evan Rivers, University of New Mexico
William Rivers, University of South Carolina

170

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 170

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

E.43	 Cultivating a Rhetorical Consciousness: Supporting
Graduate Student Writers Across the Curriculum

Discusses resources to cultivate rhetorical consciousness among grad
students, facilitating their development as scholars and educators.

D135
Speakers: Alison Bright, University of California, Davis
Lauren Fink, University of California, Davis
Katharine Rodger, University of California, Davis
Julia Singleton, University of California, Davis
4-Creative Writing

E.44	 Building Alliances between WAC, WID, STEM, and
Creative Writing

Speakers posit that creative writing courses enhance WAC, STEM, and
WID writing.

B110
Chair: Janine Morris, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Sara Cooper, University of Houston, "Against the Grid:
Composing Agency through Multigenre Writing"
Chris Drew, Indiana State University, "Spreading the Pedagogical Wealth:
Utilizing Current Creative Writing Pedagogy throughout the English
Curriculum (and Beyond)"
Erick Piller, University of Connecticut, "What's Creative about Creative
Writing? Toward a Pedagogy of Transversal Flexibility"
12-Theory

E.45	 Embodying Activism: Cultivating Rhetorical Strategies as
Marginalized Bodies
Panelists consider the activist rhetorical engagement practices of
marginalized bodies in administrative, teaching, and research spaces.

F149
Chair: Kaitlin Clinnin, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Katherine DeLuca, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth,
"Writing Back to the Haters: Cultivating Rhetorical-Ethical and
Embodied Perspectives in Writing Pedagogy"

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	171

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 171

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Katie Manthey, Salem College, "Embodying Professional Writing: 'So,
I'm Thinking about Getting a Tattoo . . .'"
Charlesia McKinney, University of Kansas, "Identity, Agency, and SelfRepresentation: Exploring Embodied Narrative Resistance in the
Composition Classroom"
Respondent: Kaitlin Clinnin, The Ohio State University, "Response:
Embodied Rhetorical Activism in the Work of Writing Practitioners"
10-Research

E.46	 Deepening Our Disciplinary Understanding: The Writing
Studies Tree as "Purposeful Cultivation"

What nurtures our work as writing scholars and teachers? We use WST
research and redesign to explore individual and disciplinary relationships.

E141
Chair: Douglas Eyman, George Mason University
Speakers: Jill Belli, New York City College of Technology, CUNY
Amanda Licastro, Stevenson University
Benjamin Miller, University of Pittsburgh
12-Theory

E.47	 Rhetoric and Disability: Neurodiversity, Communication
Practices, and Self-Advocacy

Panelists discuss the rhetorical affordances offered by the communicative
practices of neurodiverse and disabled communities.

E148
Chair: Jennifer K. Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Gretchen Cobb, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Black
American Sign Language: A New Alliance to Cultivate a Deaf Voice in
Composition"
GL Crossley, Marian University, "Realizing the Capacity of Audience: An
Alternative Model"
Rebecca Miner, University of Central Missouri, "Collective Courage
and Cultural Empowerment: Cultivating Self-Advocacy as a Way to
Challenge Stigma and Create Hope"
Alba Newmann Holmes, Swarthmore College, "The Garden of Forking
Paths: Working with Neurodiverse Writers"
7-Institutional and Professional

E.48	 Editing for Inclusion and Change

Six editors in our field will discuss practices and policies that aim for
greater inclusivity as well as progressive change.

Portland Ballroom 254

172

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 172

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

Chair: Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University
Speakers: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine, "Editing
for Inclusivity"
Jessica Enoch, University of Maryland, College Park, "Editing without
Appropriating"
Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University, "Cultivating Feminist
Capacity"
Shirley Logan, University of Maryland, College Park, "Perspicuity:
Writing to Be Understood"
Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University, "Editing for Progressive
Change"
Roxanne Mountford, University of Oklahoma, "Editorial Encomia"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

E.49	 Constructing Student Identities

This panel explores perceptions of student identity in relation to the
institution and the classroom.

D132
Chair: Elizabeth Allan, Oakland University, Rochester, MI
Speakers: Scott Lasley, University of New Hampshire, "Crashing the
Party: Cultivating a Counterpublic Space in the Writing Classroom"
Bryan Lutz, Iowa State University, "Millennials and the Role of Myth in
Composition"

Tribute Session
Tribute Session: Stanley Fish

E.50	 Thirty Years of Stanley Fish on Writing: Looking
Backward, Moving Forward

This panel will consider the legacy of Stanley Fish's work in writing
theory while attempting to move the discourse beyond tired polemics.

A106
Speakers: Edward Comstock, American University, "What Stanley
Fish Can Teach Neurorhetoric"
Hunter Hoskins, American University, "What's Living or Dead in
Stanley Fish's Composition Theory?"
Mary Switalski, American University, "Teaching Fish: Uses and
Limits"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	173

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 173

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 4:45–6:00 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

E.51	 Cultivating Cinematically, Composing Collectively

Cultivating their composing skills, this panel renders arguments about
video via video toward a cinematic view of contemporary composition.

C124
Chair: Bonnie Lenore Kyburz, Lewis University
Speakers: Bahareh Alaei, Mt. San Jacinto College, "Composing a
Symbiotic Collective"
Geoffrey Carter, Saginaw Valley State University, University Center,
"Composing a Performative Collective"
Bonnie Lenore Kyburz, Lewis University, "Composing a Cruel
Collective"
Amy Loy, Cypress College, "Composing a Symbiotic Collective"
Respondent: Sarah Arroyo, California State University, Long Beach,
"Video Composition, Participatory Composition"

174

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 174

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Thursday Special Interest
Group Meetings
6:30–7:30 p.m.
TSIG.01	 Council of Basic Writing SIG: Collaboration,
Community, Caucusing

This collaborative meeting will focus on how basic writing teachers can
use pedagogy to shape local and national policies.

	B111
	Speakers: Jason Evans, Prairie State College
Michael Hill, Henry Ford College, Dearborn, MI
Lynn Reid, Fairleigh Dickinson University

TSIG.02	 Dual Enrollment SIG

The Dual Enrollment SIG will provide a space for conversations,
action, and advocacy regarding DE and its impact on first-year
	composition.

	C122
	Chairs: Christine Denecker, The University of Findlay
Casie Moreland, Arizona State University, Tempe

TSIG.03	 Non-Western/Global Rhetorics Special Interest Group
This SIG considers the study, analysis, and codification of rhetorical
practices of different nations and civilizations.

	A108
	Speakers: Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University
Nicole Khoury, University of Illinois, Chicago
Keith Lloyd, Kent State University
Shakil Rabbi, Pennsylvania State University, State College
Adnan Salhi, Henry Ford College

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	175

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 175

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.04	 National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric

The National Archives of Composition and Rhetoric gathers and makes
available to researchers rare materials and important records.

	A104
	Chairs: Jenna Morton-Aiken, University of Rhode Island
Robert Schwegler, University of Rhode Island

TSIG.05	 Academic Mothering in Rhetoric and Composition
Open to all CCCC attendees, this SIG is a participant-led sharing
session on academic mothering in rhetoric and composition.

	A105
	Chairs: April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University
Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University

TSIG.06	 International Writing Centers Association Town Hall

Open meeting for IWCA members and those involved in writing center
work or research.

	B113
	Speakers: Shareen Grogan, National University
Jackie Grutsch McKinney, Ball State University

TSIG.07	 Community Writing SIG

This SIG provides collaborative space for participants to share their
research, pedagogy, and current projects.

	D137
	Chairs: Joyce Meier, Michigan State University
Connie Snyder Mick, University of Notre Dame

TSIG.08	 Standing Group for Disability Studies

Each year, our Standing Group for Disability Studies holds a meeting
to engage with other scholars working at the nexus of Disability
Studies and Writing Studies. We review the group's focus, our mentor
program, and share work in progress with one another, as well as
discuss group leadership opportunities and the state of our web presence.

	B117
	Chairs: Tara Wood, Rockford University, Poplar Grove, IL
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado Denver

176

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 176

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.09	 Cognition and Writing Special Interest Group: Creating
	 and Maintaining Interdisciplinary Research
	Relationships

	 This year's SIG will focus on strategies for establishing cognition and
	 writing research projects with colleagues across the disciplines.

	B114
	Chairs: Patricia Portanova, Northern Essex Community College, MA
	 Michael Rifenburg, University of North Georgia

TSIG.10	 Special Interest Group for the Assembly for Expanded
	 Perspectives on Learning: Writing as Way of Being
	Human

	 This is a business meeting for the Assembly for Expanded Perspectives
	 on Learning and will include experiments with writing practices.

	B115
	Chair: Nate Mickelson, Guttman Community College, CUNY

TSIG.11	 Teaching for Transfer (TFT) SIG






In this Special Interest Group session, we'll introduce TFT quickly
before breaking into small sessions addressing several issues, including
misconceptions about TFT; TFT in FYC; TFT in upper-level writing
courses; and specific adaptations to the TFT curriculum. In addition,
we'll forecast other opportunities to learn about TFT.

	E146
	Speaker: Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University

TSIG.12	 Legal Writing and Rhetoric Special Interest Group

	 The inaugural meeting of this SIG, cultivating the field of legal writing
	 and rhetoric outside traditional spaces and places.

	A107
	Chair: Lindsay Head, Louisiana State University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	177

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 177

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.13	 Special Interest Group for Non-Native English-
	 Speaking Writing Instructors

	 This SIG's aim is to bring together non-native English-speaking writing
	 instructors so that they can connect, share, and network.

	B119
	Chair: Judith Szerdahelyi, Western Kentucky University, Bowling
 Green
	Speakers: Chen Chen, North Carolina State University
	 Tatjana Shell, North Dakota State University

TSIG.14	 Appalachian Rhetoric, Composition, and Literacy SIG

	 Our meeting will offer a two-part caucus that opens with a business
	 meeting and concludes with opportunities for research and
	collaboration.

	A109
	Chairs: Jonathan Bradshaw, Western Carolina University
	 Sara Webb-Sunderhaus, Indiana University–Purdue University Fort
 Wayne

TSIG.15	 SIG for Senior, Late-Career, and Retired Professionals
	 in Rhet/Comp/Writing Studies
	 SIG members will continue work on two projects developed over the
	 past two years and initiate a proposal for standing group status.

	A103
	Speakers: Darsie Bowden, DePaul University
	 Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University

TSIG.16	 Writing Fellows Programs SIG

	 Annual meeting of Writing Fellows program directors, with
	 opportunities for networking and sharing resources.

	B110
	Chair: Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University
		Speakers: Michelle Hager, San Jose State University
		 Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University
		 Pat Walls, San Jose State University

178

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 178

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.17	 Medical Rhetoric Standing Group

		 This group celebrates its 22nd year as a SIG and 2 years as a Standing
Group. Our business meeting will cover elections, minutes, and
networking.

		B112
		Speakers: Barbara Heifferon, Louisiana State University
		 Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati

TSIG.18	 Special Interest Group: Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy,
Research, and Literacies

	 The Special Interest Group on prison pedagogy, research, and literacies
	 provides a forum for prison literacy researchers and teachers.

	D134
	Chairs: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University
	 Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY

TSIG.19	 Labor Caucus SIG Business Meeting

	 Open to all, this SIG offers a space to discuss labor, update on the
	 caucus's progress, and develop strategies for change.

	C124
	Chairs: Craig Crowder, University of Kentucky
	 Sue Doe, Colorado State University, Fort Collins
	 Vandana Gavaskar, Santa Barbara City College
	 Heather Julien, Emory University
	 Galen Leonhardy, Black Hawk College
	 Amy Lynch-Biniek, Kutztown University
	 Jessica Philbrook, Walden University
	 Maxwell Philbrook, University of Missouri, Columbia

TSIG.20	 Rhetoric's Histories, Theories, Pedagogies Special
	 Interest Group

	 This Special Interest Group was formed in 2013 to foster connections
	 among professional organizations interested in rhetorical studies.

	A106
	Speakers: Lois Agnew, Syracuse University
	 Roxanne Mountford, University of Oklahoma

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	179

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 179

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.21	 Meeting of the International Network of Writing-
	 Across-the-Curriculum Programs
	 Annual CCCC session facilitated by Consultants Board, with small-
	 group discussions on WAC/WID planning and administration.

	D138
	Chairs: Michelle Cox, Cornell University
	 Jeffrey Galin, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton
	 Anne Ellen Geller, St. John's University
	 Dan Melzer, University of California, Davis
	Speakers: Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, Corvallis
	 Pamela Childers, The Clearing House
	 Michelle LaFrance, George Mason University
	 Mary McMullen-Light, Johnson County Community College
	 Teresa Redd, Howard University
	 David Russell, Iowa State University, Ames
	 Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis
	 Dilek Tokay, Sabanci University, Istanbul, Turkey
	 Terry Zawacki, George Mason University

TSIG.22	 SIG for Untenured Writing Program Administrators

	 This SIG helps untenured writing program administrators (FYC, WAC,
	 writing centers, etc.) navigate teaching, research, and administration.

	D133
	Speaker: Christopher Basgier, University of North Dakota

TSIG.23	 Second Language Writing Standing Group Business
	Meeting
	 Provides a discussion space for writing scholars, teachers, and
	 administrators to explore issues of L2 writing research and advocacy.

	D135
	Chair: Katherine Silvester, Indiana University, Bloomington

180

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 180

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.24	 Kenneth Burke Society at CCCC

	 This year's KBS SIG will focus on the panoply of intersections
	 between undergraduate research and Kenneth Burke studies.

	B118
	Speaker: Ethan Sproat, Utah Valley University

TSIG.25	 Progressive Approaches to Grammar, Punctuation, and
	Usage
	 This SIG will explore progressive approaches to grammar in the
	 classroom: creating change by using grammar as a set of tools, not
	rules.

	C120
	Speakers: Loretta Gray, Central Washington University
	 Joseph Salvatore, The New School

TSIG.26	 Contemplative Writing Pedagogies Special Interest
	Group
	 This SIG will explore best practices in contemplative pedagogy,
	 offering support in incorporating practices into the writing classroom.

	D132
	Speakers: Emily Beals, California State University, Fresno
	 Jennifer Consilio, Lewis University
	 Donna Strickland, University of Missouri, Columbia
	 Christy Wenger, Shepherd University, Shepherdstown, WV

TSIG.27	 SIG for the Creative Nonfiction Standing Group: Peter
	 Elbow on Creative Nonfiction

	 Business meeting of the Creative Nonfiction Standing Group, including
	 a conversation with Peter Elbow.

	B116
	Chairs: Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst
	 Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	181

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 181

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Thursday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

TSIG.28	 Cultural Rhetorics Consortium Meeting

	 A business meeting of the Cultural Rhetorics Consortium in which we
	 discuss initiatives that are of special interest to CCCC members.

	C121
	Speakers: Phillip Bratta, Michigan State University
	 Alexandra Hidalgo, Michigan State University
	 Malea Powell, Michigan State University
	 Cindy Tekobbe, The University of Alabama

TSIG.29	 Studio PLUS

	 The Studio SIG works to support Studio approaches and programs
	 being used across various educational contexts.

	C125
	Chairs: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College
	 Mark Sutton, Midlands Technical College

182

b87-182-4Cs-2017.indd 182

2/8/17 8:01 AM

Friday, 8:00 a.m.–8:30 p.m.

Friday, March 17
Special Events and Meetings
All sessions and events are located in the Oregon Convention Center
unless otherwise noted.

Mentoring@Cs
Breakfast: D130, 8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
Meeting: A103, 7:30 p.m.–8:30 p.m.
Mentoring@Cs central goal is to forge informal mentoring relationships between
newcomers and veterans in the field. The CCCC Committee on the Status of Graduate Students (4C SOGS) and the Writing Program Administration Graduate Organization (WPA-GO) partner each year (since 2015) to match mentees and mentors
based on specific research, teaching, and professionalization interests, put them in
email contact with one another, and encourage them to meet and chat at the conference by providing a number of social gathering opportunities.

Standing Group for Effective Practices in Online Writing
Instruction: New Beginnings
DoubleTree Hotel, Morrison Room
9:30 a.m.–12:00 p.m.
Co-Chairs: Kevin DePew, Old Dominion University
Scott Warnock, Drexel University

This will be the first meeting of the Standing Group for Effective Practices in Online
Writing Instruction.

Planning for Next Year's CCCC Convention
Action Hub
2:00–3:00 p.m.
Individuals interested in discussing program proposals for the 2018 CCCC Annual
Convention in Kansas City, MO, March 14–17, are invited to meet Asao Inoue, 2018
Program Chair, in the Action Hub.

CCCC Awards/Recognition Reception
Portland Ballroom 252 & 253
5:00 p.m.–6:30 p.m.
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 183

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 183

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 7:00 p.m.–1:30 a.m.

Inclusive Arts Vibe Dance Company Performance
Portland Ballroom 251 & 258
7:00–8:00 p.m.
In collaboration with the Portland Disability Art and Culture Project, the Standing
Group for Disability Studies is sponsoring a performance by the Inclusive Arts Vibe
Dance Company (IAVDC). The IAVDC strives to build "an equitable community
through dance" by providing integrated dance classes to youth with and without disabilities. Don't miss this amazing performance!

The 30th Annual Poetry Forum: Exultation of Larks
D132
7:30 p.m.–10:30 p.m.
Chair: Katherine Oldmixon, Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX
Facilitator: Jennine Krueger, Huston-Tillotson University, Austin, TX

This forum has become a valued annual gathering for CCCC poets and friends of poetry. Those who write should bring original material to read for about five minutes.
Those who enjoy the company of poets should come to listen, respond, and share
in the pleasures of the occasion. Poet readers should contact Katherine Oldmixon
(kdoldmixon@htu.edu) if they have questions.

Caucus after the Caucus
Portland Ballroom 254
8:00 p.m.–9:00 p.m.
AA and Al-Anon Meeting Space
8:00 p.m.–10:00 p.m.
Meeting space is set aside for those who desire to have an AA or Al-Anon meeting.
AA, Room D133
Al-Anon, Room D134

CCCC Jam
Portland Ballroom 251 & 258
9:30 p.m.–1:30 a.m.
CCCC isn't CCCC without a night of fun, dancing, and partying! And Friday night
will be the jam to beat all jams. So bring your best two-step and your coolest moves
and get your party on at CCCC 2017!

184

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 184

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F Sessions: 8:00–9:15 a.m.
Poster Sessions
Portland Ballroom Lobby
Seeking "Quality" in Contract Grading: A Case Study of a Technical
Writing Classroom
This poster presents research from a contract grading study implemented in a
technical writing classroom in the Northeast.
Lisa Litterio, Bridgewater State University
Boundaries to the Instructional Use of Facebook: A Grounded Theory
Collective Case Study
This presentation, based on a grounded theory study, will include a framework
of five boundaries to the instructional use of Facebook.
Jodi Whitehurst, Arkansas State University-Beebe
Cultivating Relationships and Transforming Culture in Writing Programs
Using Liberating Structures
An Appreciative Inquiry about program planning and a discussion about
Liberating Structures, building trust, and unleashing innovation!
Lucia Dura, University of Texas at El Paso
Cultivating Cross-Disciplinary Connections: Faculty Perspectives on
Writing-Intensive Courses
A qualitative research project intended to determine the experience, values, and
needs of faculty teaching writing-intensive courses.
Jen Talbot, University of Central Arkansas
Technical Writing Strategies for the CTE Teacher
This poster session examines high school career and technical education
teachers' responses to workshop training in technical writing strategies for
classrooms.
Teresa Farrell, Eastern Oregon University
Hierarchies and Harkness: Shifting from the Podium to Encircled Modes
of Investigation
This poster session advocates for the use of the Harkness method in the
analysis of literature in the classroom.
Christian Gregory, Teachers College, Columbia University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 185

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 185

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

"To the King and Councell": Situating Early Quaker Women's Petitions to
Authorities
Analysis of 17th-century Quaker women's letters to authorities, as both
traditional deliberative rhetoric and feminist critique.
Elizabeth Imafuji, Anderson University
Questioning, Negotiating, Cultivating: Student Editors and Multimodal
Submissions
Research analyzing how student editors define effective multimodal
composition and cultivate that knowledge across the university.
Dalyn Luedtke, Norwich University, Northfield, VT

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
F.01

Think Tank on CCCC Student Veteran Policy

Think Tank on Cultivating Change for Current, Former,
and Future Members of the Military in Composition
Studies
With all branches of the US military affected by reduced fiscal
resources, dwindling troop strength, and a lack of a unified mission,
the perceptions and experiences of transitioning military personnel
may be distinctly different in 2016 than they were in 2011; in light
of these evolving changes, college composition faculty face a new
set of challenges for responding to transitioning service members.
The 2017 CCCC Convention presents an excellent opportunity for
cultivating conversation about what the 2015 CCCC student veteran
policy is doing (for writing teachers, administrators, military students,
and student veterans) two years since its passing. How does this
policy stand up against the evolving experiences of service members
transitioning out of the military and into college? This Think Tank
session is meant to spark communication, build upon the community,
and move us toward continued, sustainable efforts for working with
military-affiliated students in writing programs and classes. Grounded
in the Student Veterans in the College Composition Classroom policy
statement, facilitators will lead attendees through reflection, scrutiny,
and enacting change locally and nationally.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Lt. Col. Alan Brown, United States Military Academy,
West Point, NY
Mariana Grohowski, Indiana University Southeast

186

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 186

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.02

Cultivating Policy Advocacy

Taking Action: Everyday Advocacy

This session introduces participants to the idea of Everyday
Advocacy: that, given the current narrative surrounding educational
issues, we as teachers and scholars have a unique role in providing
the public with a different narrative about issues we care about deeply
(writing pedagogy, literacy, testing, etc.). Based in last year's CCCCs
Taking Action Workshops and the Everyday Advocacy website
(everydayadvocacy.org), the session will introduce participants to the
background of this movement and the concepts that ground it; offer
examples of how compositionists might introduce the ideas behind
Everyday Advocacy to their graduate students and colleagues (through
a full course in advocacy for writing teachers; through three-day
summer workshops for K–16 teachers; and through existing courses);
and work with participants to determine how they might incorporate
advocacy approaches into their own teaching and how to get started.
In addition to this Cultivate session, Cathy Fleischer will offer
Everyday Advocacy sessions in the Action Hub on Thursday
(10:30–11:45 a.m.) and Friday (12:30–1:45 p.m.).

Portland Ballroom 256
Facilitators: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa
Barbara
Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University

F.03

Cultivating Professional Engagement through Mentoring
Cultivating Capacity: Mentoring Challenges and
Opportunities

This Cultivate session will take an action-oriented look at the
challenges and opportunities inherent in mentoring with the goal of
cultivating new voices in our field and in our organizations. Drawing
on their experiences as both mentees and mentors, the facilitators of
this session will focus especially on the kind of informal mentoring
that can encourage a colleague to propose his first conference
presentation or to run for an office in her regional TYCA association.
Consideration also will be given to mentoring as a way of being,
personally and professionally, as well as valued and necessary
throughout one's career. Participants will be invited to share examples
of effective and ineffective mentoring and to articulate new ways
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 187

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 187

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

they might encourage their own and their colleagues' growth and
development.

Portland Ballroom 255
Facilitators: Ruben Casas, California State University, Fresno
Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Lisa Ede, Oregon State University
Dodie Forrest, Yakima Valley Community College
Asao Inoue, University of Washington, Tacoma
Eva Payne, Chemeketa Community College
Vershawn Young, University of Waterloo, Canada

F.04

3-Community, Civic & Public

Cross-Caucus Community Engagement

Cross-Caucus Sponsored Session
Leaders from identity-based caucuses will lead discussions and
conversations focused on identity-based community engagement.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Cristina Kirklighter, Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi
Speakers: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "Latin@ Caucus
Community Engagement"
Collin Craig, St. John's University, "Black Caucus Community
Engagement"
Rebecca Hayes, Michigan State University, East Lansing, "Queer Caucus
Community Engagement"
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, "Asian/Asian
American Caucus Community Engagement"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, "American Indian
Caucus Community Engagement"

F.05

8-Language

What Linguistics Can Offer the Composition Teacher

Sponsored by the Linguistics, Language, and Writing Standing Group
Current work in linguistics provides powerful tools for analyzing and
creating texts in multiple contexts, at the sentence level and beyond.

F151

188

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 188

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Speakers: Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska at Omaha
Michael Israel, University of Maryland, College Park
Daniel Kies, College of DuPage
Sandra Kies, Benedictine University
Cameron Mozafari, University of Maryland, College Park
Respondent: Rei Noguchi, California State University, Northridge

F.06

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Capacity, Action, and Change: 21st-Century Implications
for Student Retention in First-Year Writing
In this presentation, four speakers will discuss the history and theory that
guides retention-based initiatives in first-year writing.

A105
Speakers: Jonathan Bush, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Jeanne LaHaie, Klamath Community College
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Adrienne Redding, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Respondent: Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University,
Kalamazoo

F.07

8-Language

Multilingualism, Identity, and Power

This panel looks at the ways that multilingual speakers assert their agency
and resist efforts to disempower them.

B112
Chair: Susan Youngblood, Auburn University
Speakers: Lava Asaad, Middle Tennessee State University, "I'm a Refugee
and I'm OK: Instructor's Identity in Resisting Classrooms"
Nancy Bou Ayash, University of Washington, Seattle, "From Beirut to
Seattle: Unpacking Tensions of Language Difference in Superdiverse
Urban Eduscapes"
Maria Carvajal, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "'I Don't
Just Speak English. And I Don't Just Speak Spanish. I Speak Both:'
Pedagogical Implications and Applications of Students' Definitions of
Spanglish"
Sammantha McCalla, St. John's University, "Language as Criteria for Full
Citizenship: A Look at the Dehumanization of Patois Speakers"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 189

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 189

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.08

7-Institutional and Professional

Social Advocacy Education in the Most Segregated City
in America

Cross-disciplinary collaboration fostered development of an Associate of
Arts in Social Advocacy to prepare students to challenge inequities.

C120
Chair: Jennifer Mikulay, Milwaukee Area Technical College, "Facilitating
Cross-Disciplinary Program Development in the Most Segregated City
in America"
Speakers: Kimberly OmniEssence, Milwaukee Area Technical College,
"Championing Change through Small-Group Communication in the
Most Segregated City in America"
Anna Varley, Milwaukee Area Technical College, "Reading and Writing
for Advocacy in the Most Segregated City in America"

F.09

12-Theory

Reading and Listening as Writing Students and Writing
Teachers

Panelists argue for a more capacious understanding of reading and
audience that incorporates listening to our readers, writers, and students.

D140
Chair: Jennie Vaughn, Gannon University
Speakers: Daniel Keller, The Ohio State University at Newark,
"Theorizing Audience for Readers and Writers"
Beau Pihlaja, The University of Texas at El Paso, "Lurking as Rhetorical
Listening: Cultivating Productive Engagement on Race with Social
Media"
Kara Wittman, Pomona College, "'On the Presumption of Knowing How
to Read': Teaching Our Own Literacy in a Writing Classroom"

F.10

8-Language

The Rhetorical Choices of Migrant Adolescents in
Structured Debate Competitions Demonstrating
Language Finesse and Growth Mindset

This session focuses on the discourse of adolescent migratory farmworkers
that indicates a growth mindset of learning.

D133
Speakers: Julie Antilla-Garza, Seattle Pacific University
Kristine Gritter, Seattle Pacific University

190

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 190

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.11

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Interacting with Texts

Innovative ways of interacting with texts within and beyond the
composition classroom.

F152
Chair: Paul Walker, Murray State University
Speakers: Rita Celariste, SUNY New Paltz, "Challenging Assumptions:
Educational Opportunity Program Career Project"
Mary Fakler, SUNY New Paltz, "Challenging Assumptions: Educational
Opportunity Program Career Project"
Susan Gebhardt-Burns, Norwalk Community College, "Stand Up! The
Usefulness and Importance of Conferencing While Standing (versus
Sitting) in the Composition Classroom"
Joan Perisse, SUNY New Paltz, "Challenging Assumptions: Educational
Opportunity Program Career Project"
Ben Stewart, New York University, "Distant Reading without Computers"

F.12

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Sowing the Seeds of Change: Enacting Agency and
Action through a Transformative Multiliteracy Pedagogy
Research findings and student artifacts supporting a transformative
pedagogical stance attained through multimodal and digital practices.

B114
Speakers: Marilyn Buono, Hofstra University
Josefa Pace, Sonoma State University
Melinda Smith, Hofstra University/Manhasset Public Schools

F.13

10-Research

A Transition Point: Developing Writing Capacity for
First-Generation College Students

This panel presents findings from three qualitative studies of writing
transitions of first-generation college students.

C124
Speakers: Katherine Alford, Arizona State University
Jessica Early, Arizona State University
Christina Saidy, Arizona State University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 191

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 191

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.14

13-Writing Programs

Creating a Community of Writing Programs: A
Collaboration with the Community College System

Since 2009, a university WAC program has collaborated with faculty in
the state's community colleges to support development of WAC courses.

F150
Chair: Georgia Rhoades, Appalachian State University, "Writing Across
Institutions: An Eight-Year Collaboration"
Speakers: Sharon Alusow Hart, Appalachian State University
Dennis Bohr, Appalachian State University
Amanda Finn, Appalachian State University
Georgia Rhoades, Appalachian State University

F.15

12-Theory

Teaching and Assessing for Racial Justice

This panel offers strategies for promoting equity and racial justice in
teaching, assessment, and evaluation.

Portland Ballroom 254
Chair: Aja Martinez, Binghamton University, SUNY
Speakers: Brian Bailie, University of Cincinnati, Blue Ash College,
"'Teaching While White': Race, Writing, and Rhetoric in the
Composition Classroom"
Candace Epps-Robertson, Old Dominion University, "'Teaching While
Black': Pedagogical Strategies for Facing Resistance"
Nicole Gonzales Howell, University of San Francisco, CA, "Writing
Assessment and Race: The Politics of Classroom Management and
Grading Practices"
Zosha Stuckey, Towson University, "'Intergroup Dialogue' as a Pedagogy
for Racial Justice"

F.16

13-Writing Programs

Race Matters in Centers and Programs

Speakers explore the issues of who tutors and who uses writing center
services: race matters.

E148
Chair: Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University

192

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 192

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Speakers: Mark Bennett, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Supporting
Student Writers at a Dual AANAPISI/HSI University"
Collie Fulford, North Carolina Central University, "Austerity's Invention:
Advancing an Advanced Writing Curriculum in Hard Times"
Jennifer Marciniak, Berea College, "Exploring Reasons Why African
American Students Might Hesitate to Work as Writing Center
Consultants: A Study of Berea College"
Elijah Simmons, Miami University, "Where is ma Migo?"

F.17

5-History

Composition in the Eighties: Retrospect and Prospect

The 1980s were a watershed decade for composition. Three teacherscholars whose early careers were forged then will each exam a key idea.

E145
Chair: Irwin Weiser, Purdue University
Speakers: Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver, Colorado, "WordStar
and Dual Floppies: Lingering Lessons from the First Large Writing
Program Taught Exclusively in Computer Classrooms"
Steve North, University at Albany, SUNY, "What Is (Writing Beyond)
Composition?"
Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University, "The More Things
Change, the More . . . : The Role of the Student-as-Composer in
Composing Process Research Past and Present"
Respondent: Jody Shipka, University of Maryland, Baltimore County

F.18

10-Research

Investigating Cognition in Writing Development: Habits of
Mind, Deliberate Practice, and the Potential of Big Data
Adaptive learning platforms can enable both the deliberate practice
necessary for writing development as well as Big Data research.

E142
Chair: Gwen Gorzelsky, Colorado State University
Speakers: Gwen Gorzelsky, Colorado State University
Carol Hayes, The George Washington University, Washington, DC
Joseph Paszek, University of Detroit Mercy

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 193

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 193

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.19

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Teaching Writing to Veterans and Active Military
Personnel

This session explores curricular strategies that cultivate community and
rhetorical acumen among students who are active military personnel or
veterans.

C126
Chair: Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College, Petoskey,
"Perceptions of Identity and Influence: Preliminary Results from
a Multi-Year Study with Student Veterans beyond First-Year
Composition"
Speakers: Lourdes Fernandez, George Mason University, "Communities
of Practice on the Military Base: Cultivating Composition Instructor
Ethos, Identity, and Participation"
Corrine Hinton, Texas A&M University Texarkana, "Perceptions of
Identity and Influence: Preliminary Results from a Multi-Year Study
with Student Veterans beyond First-Year Composition"
Bree McGregor, George Mason University, "Communities of Practice on
the Military Base: Cultivating Composition Instructor Ethos, Identity,
and Participation"
Melody Pugh, United States Air Force Academy, "Firing the 'New
Canon': Reconsidering the Rhetoric of 'Skills-Based' Writing Courses"

F.20

3-Community, Civic & Public

(In)capacities of Anti-Semitism: Composition, Writing,
and the Israeli/Palestinian Debate

The panelists aim to "create capacities" for debating anti-Semitism as it
appears in writing both inside and outside the academy.

E146
Speakers: Andrea Greenbaum, Barry University, "Die Saeuberung:
Cleansing the Academy and the Stillness of Opposition: A Visual
Analysis"
Brandon Katzir, Louisiana State University, "'A Polite Hatred': AntiSemitism, Academia, and the Anglophone Left"
Jennifer Rice, University of Kentucky, "Definitional Impasse: The Messy
Rhetoric of Anti-Zionism and Anti-Semitism"
Jaime Wright, St. John's University, "Debate as State of Exception"
Respondent: Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago

194

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 194

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.21

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Critical Approaches to Integrating Reading and Writing

Panelists share how students are engaged through "reading" of humor and
film.

A103
Chair: Eric Detweiler, Middle Tennessee State University
Speakers: Anita August, Sacred Heart University, "A Terrible Beauty Is
Born!—Cultivating Critical Consciousness and Classroom Community
Using Visual Trauma as Narrative in First-Year Composition (FYC)"
Kirk Boyle, University of North Carolina at Asheville, "Cultivating
Rhetorical Consciousness through Comedy: The Portlandia
Assignment"
Amy Green, Hobart and William Smith Colleges, "In Their Own Words:
Reading and Writing as Generative, Recursive Practices in the
Composition Classroom"
Barbara Smith, University of Central Missouri, "Cultivating Reading
Engagement"

F.22

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Cultivating Online Pedagogy: Feedback, Workshops, and
Experiential Learning in First-Year Composition

This panel discusses issues related to instructor feedback, peer review, and
course design in online composition classrooms.

B116
Speakers: Jennifer Cunningham, Kent State University at Stark, "Online
Composition Students' Responses to Instructor Feedback"
Steve Edgehouse, Stark State College, "Vlogshopping: Using Video to
Enhance Online Writing Workshops"
Lauren Garcia-DuPlain, The University of Akron, "Monoculture Course
Design: An Experiment in Online, Experiential English Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 195

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 195

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.23

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Backward, Forward, Outward, Onward: Cultivating
Connections between Writing Studies and English
Studies

Facing the challenges of cultivating connections between writing studies
and other areas of English study in an era of hyperspecialization.

Portland Ballroom 251
Speakers: Darin Ciccotelli, Soka University of America, "Post-Process
Theory and Creative Writing"
Brandee Easter, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Peer Review and
Workshop Pedagogy: Troubled Histories"
Tim Mayers, Millersville University, "Institutional Histories and Writing
Studies"
Julie Alexander, Miami University, "Business Writing and Creative
Writing: Converging Agendas"
James Ryan, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Peer Review and
Workshop Pedagogy: Troubled Histories"
Jonathan Udelson, University of Louisville, "Creative Writers in the
Composition Classroom"

F.24

7-Institutional and Professional

The Language of Technology in Professional Documents
and Local Contexts: Cultivating Technologically
Responsive Positions, Practices, and Persons
Results of a review of the language of technology in 40 years of
professional statements and how such language can shape teacher
preparation.

D131
Speakers: Kerri Hauman, Transylvania University
Stacy Kastner, Mississippi State University
Alison Witte, Trine University, Angola, IN

F.25

3-Community, Civic & Public

I Have the Best Words: What Rhetoric Can Learn from
Donald Trump

This roundtable explores the impact of the Trump presidential campaign
on rhetoric, politics, and public discourse.

Portland Ballroom 253
Speakers: Collin Brooke, Syracuse University, "Don't Read the
Comments? How #Trump Broke/red the Internet"

196

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 196

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Trish Roberts-Miller, University of Texas at Austin, "Trump and the
Demagoguery Charge"
Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University, "Trump's Stump: On the Risky
Appeal(s) of Donald Trump's Anti-Rhetoric"
Brad Vivian, Pennsylvania State University, "Donald Trump, Neoliberal
Assemblages, and Late Modern Sovereignty"
Amy Young, Pacific Lutheran University, "Rhetorics of Fear and
Loathing: Donald Trump's Populist Style"

F.26

8-Language

Revisiting Expectations in Students' Right to Their Own
Language

These panelists challenge the unstated assumptions that SRTOL dictates
deficit in writing courses and listen to instructor aspirations and concerns
in its implementation.

B117
Chair: Sonia Arellano, University of Arizona, Tucson
Speakers: Stephanie Boone-Mosher, University of South Carolina,
Columbia, "Overworked, Underpaid, and Marginally Employed:
Why Writing Teachers Resist Learning about and Enacting Pluralist
Pedagogies"
Jennifer Justice, Northern Illinois University, "More Than Remediation:
SRTOL and Identity Pedagogies in First-Year Composition"
Erica Lange, Ohio University, "Discontinuing Dis(missing) the SRTOL:
Defending the Students' Right to Define and Develop Their Own
Language in FYC"

F.27

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Transferring to Wonderland: How Writing Classes Can
Cultivate Community for Transfer Students
Presenters share teaching strategies to connect transfer and reentry
students to the culture of the university in required writing courses.

B115
Chair: Jennifer Campbell, University of Denver
Speakers: April Chapman-Ludwig, University of Denver, "'Lost in the
Tulgey Woo': Teaching Transfer Students to Navigate the Writing
Sequence"
Robert Gilmor, University of Denver, "'Begin at the Beginning': Building
a Community with Transfer Students in the Archives"
Zoe Tobier, University of Denver, "'Because I Was a Different Person
Then': Writing Transfer Students' Stories of Self, Community, and
Other"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 197

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 197

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.28

2-Basic Writing

ALP at Ten: A Decade Retrospective of the Accelerated
Learning Program at the Community College of Baltimore
County
As ALP turns 10, the founders of the model, adopted at 230 schools, look
back on a decade of successes, missteps, and lessons learned.

D136
Chair: Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Susan Gabriel, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Jamey Gallagher, Community College of Baltimore County, MD

F.29

10-Research

Data Studies and Rhetoric and Composition:
Pedagogical, Disciplinary, and Methodological
Possibilities

Our field can engage pedagogically, experimentally, and institutionally to
help realize the humanistic values afforded by data studies.

E141
Speakers: Daniel Anderson, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Ashley Hall, Wright State University
Jim Ridolfo, University of Kentucky
Courtney Rivard, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

F.31

8-Language

Cultivating Capacity and Creating Change for Students'
Right to Their Own Language

This panel will examine, strategize, and theorize new possibilities for how
we consciously create the conditions for learning and for change.

D135
Speakers: April Baker-Bell, Michigan State University, "Writing While
Black: Disrupting Internalized Hegemonic Language Ideologies"
Stephanie Jones, Antelope Valley College, "Connecting Strategies of
Domination: An Epistemological Analysis of Black Vernacular and
Creole Englishes"
Bonnie Williams, California State University, Fullerton, "Theoretical and
Historical Perspectives on Language Rights in California"

198

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 198

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.32

9-Professional and Technical Writing

Genre Theory in Action

Three panelists explore information ecologies, hybridization, and the
material constraints of genre.

C122
Chair: Wendy Sharer, East Carolina University
Speakers: Erica Baumle, Texas Tech University, "Information Ecologies:
Technical Communication in Online Game Support Community Sites"
Mike Duncan, University of Houston-Downtown, "The Rhetoric of the
Kamikaze Manual"
Jillian Hill, University of Houston-Downtown, "The Rhetoric of the
Kamikaze Manual"
Naoko Ozaki, Rice University, "The Rhetoric of the Kamikaze Manual"
Krista White, Kent State University, "Cultivating New Understanding
of the Annual Report as a Hybridized Genre through Application of a
Hybridized Methodology"

F.33

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Teaching for Transfer beyond First-Year Composition:
Professional and Business Writing

Presenters consider using teaching for transfer beyond first-year writing.

A104
Chair: Joel Williams, Edward Waters College
Speakers: E. Jann Harris, University of Nevada, Reno, "Remixing the Old
and the New: Cultivating the TFT Metaphor"
Patricia Jenkins, University of Alaska Anchorage, "Applying TFT to
an Upper-Division Professional Writing Course: Broadening the
Curricular Reach"
Cynthia Johnson, Miami University, "Broadening the Transfer Landscape:
Cultivating Transfer-Focused Writing Curricula beyond Composition
Programs"
Nicole Varty, Wayne State University, "Flexible Writing in Literate
Ecologies: A Longitudinal Study of Student Writing Knowledge
Transfer into, during, and after First-Year Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 199

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 199

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.34

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Cultivating Pedagogies for Social Justice: Exploring
Issues of Diversity in Writing Courses

Pedagogies for first- and second-year writing courses focused on issues of
diversity and social justice.

C123
Speakers: Ann Amicucci, University of Colorado, Colorado Springs,
"Student Reflection on Language Diversity: Exploring Social Justice
Issues in First-Year Composition"
Sarah Henderson Lee, Minnesota State University, "World Englishes
Texts and Academic Writing: Perceptions of L2 Writers in a First-Year
Composition Class"
Kristene McClure, Georgia Gwinnett College, "Tying Themes to
Outcomes in FYC: Reflections on 'Researching Linguistic Diversity'"
Gloria Park, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, IN, "Integrating Issues of
Diversity and Social (In)Justice in Undergraduate Research Writing"

F.35

12-Theory

The Affective and Political: Cultivating Theories for the
Classroom

This panel looks at the ways in which the affective and a cultivation of
emotion engage with/against the political in learning environments.

D134
Chair: Geoffrey Schwarz, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Speakers: Catherine Chaput, University of Nevada, Reno, "The Political
Economic and Affective Terrains of Composition"
James Daniel, Philadelphia University, "Freshman Composition as a
'Precariat' Enterprise"
Brittany Kelley, University of Jamestown, "Doing Scholarly Emotion:
Cultivating a Theory of Emotioned Academic Work"
Anne Shea, California College of the Arts, "'Best Practices' and Structural
Inequality"

200

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 200

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.36

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Beyond Transfer: Approaches to Teaching Sustainable
Writing Practices

This panel explores strategies for teaching sustainable writing practices
through conversation, collaboration, and intercultural exchange.

A108
Speakers: Scott Gibson, Universidad San Francisco de Quito, "Sustaining
Writing Practices across Languages and Cultures among Bilingual
Students"
Kathleen Leuschen, Wake Forest University, "Teaching Rhetorical
Listening in Conversation through Writing Groups"
Cheryl Marsh, High Point University, "Creating Cultural Awareness
through Writing Groups in the Literature/Global Studies Classroom"
Lauren Shook, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Cultivating
Community-Engaged Writing in First-Year Writing"

F.37

12-Theory

The Subject of Decoloniality: Walter Mignolo and the
Study of Writing

This panel analyzes the work of critical theorist Walter Mignolo in the
context of the study of writing, rhetoric, and literacy.

Portland Ballroom 258
Chair: Gabriela Rios, University of Oklahoma
Speakers: José Cortez, University of Arizona, "Impossible Subjects"
Iris Ruiz, University of California-Merced, "Persistent Coloniality"
Raúl Sánchez, University of Florida, "Forget Mignolo"

F.38

13-Writing Programs

Taming the Multimodal Beast: Cultivating Sustainable
Programmatic Multimodal Curricular Transformation

This panel offers strategies for the manageable cultivation of multimodal
curricular transformation in first-year composition programs.

E143
Speakers: Logan Bearden, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, "The
Work of Composition: How Outcomes Statements Define (Multimodal)
Composition Curricula"
Leigh Gruwell, Auburn University, "Beyond Digital: Building a Capacious
Multimodal Composition Curriculum"
Natalie Szymanski, University of Hawai'i-West O'ahu, "An
Administrative Ecological Heuristic for Sustainable Programmatic
Multimodal Transformation"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 201

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 201

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.39

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Regenerative Pedagogies for FYC: Multimodality,
Rhetorical Grammar, Revision, and Reflection

This panel presents innovative, multimodal approaches to teaching
invention, grammar, revision, and reflection in FYC.

A107
Chair: Bre Garrett, University of West Florida
Speakers: Kara Griffith, University of West Florida
Karen Manning, University of West Florida
Hannah Trevino, University of West Florida

F.40

2-Basic Writing

Placement and Assessment in Basic Writing: ALP, L2,
and WAC

Presenters consider curricular initiatives of basic writing populations.

A109
Chair: Henrietta Wood, University of Missouri–Kansas City
Speakers: Matthew Hollrah, University of Central Oklahoma, "Cultivating
Corequisite Developmental Writing: An Institutional Case Study"
James Pacello, Berkeley College, "Put Yourself in Their Shoes:
Student Perspectives on Transferring Writing Knowledge Across the
Curriculum"
Zoe Speidel, University of New Mexico, "Rethinking Administrative
Action and Teacher Preparation for Developmental FYC"
Nicole Williams, Bridgewater State University, "Cultivating and Creating
Confidence: The Long-Term Effects on At-Risk Readers and Writers of
an Enhanced Model of First-Year Writing"

F.41

13-Writing Programs

Cultivating a Capacity-Building Writing Center Praxis:
Mobilizing Empirical Research to Improve Practice,
Professionalize Tutors, and Support Writers

This panel posits empirical research as a means to inform writing center
praxis that supports institutional access for tutors and writers.

E147
Chair: Georganne Nordstrom, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa
Speakers: Samantha Ikehara, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "Assessing
the Promise of Inclusion: The Problematic Nature of Tutor Training
Manuals"

202

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 202

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

Avree Ito-Fujita, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "An Online Writing
Center's Writing across Communities and Writing in Digital Initiatives"
Georganne Nordstrom, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, "Collaboration
and Professionalization in the Writing Center: Practitioner Inquiry as
Praxis and Research"
Isaac Wang, University of Hawaiʻi at Mānoa, "Tutoring Each Other: Tutor
Collaboration in the Writing Center"

F.42

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Archival Methods: Cultivating Disasters in Action

This panel presents the work of four researchers as they cultivated new
methods of teaching, research, writing, and critique.

D138
Speakers: James Beasley, University of North Florida, "Cultivating
Disciplinary Knowledge"
Kristeen Graves, University of North Florida, "Cultivating Critical
Pedagogies"
Katrice Stover, University of North Florida, "Cultivating Diverse Research
Strategies"
Jeanette Viglilotti, Virginia Commonwealth University, "Cultivating
Critical Memory"

F.43

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Analog Gaming/Multimodal Writing

Pedagogical affordances of board game media and modes for rhetoric,
research, and writing.

B113
Speakers: Richard Colby, University of Denver
Richard Colby, University of Denver
Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, MA
Matthew A. Hill, University of Denver
Rebekah Shultz Colby, University of Denver

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 203

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 203

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.44

6-Information Technologies

Engaging Students in Online Classes

Panelists examine outcomes of implanting high-impact practices, writingintensive activities, and community-based learning in online writing
environments.

B111
Chair: Jennifer Hewerdine, Arizona Western College, Yuma
Speakers: Keith Grant-Davie, Utah State University, "Enacting a
Community of Inquiry Framework for Asynchronous Discussion
Forums in Online Classes"
Zapoura Newton-Calvert, Portland Community College, "Disrupting the
Online Writing Classroom with Community-Based Learning: A Call for
Flexible Volunteer Options, Community Action, and Authentic Student
Ownership of the Writing Process"
Natalie Stillman-Webb, University of Utah, "Cultivating Ethos in the
Online Writing Course: Student Perceptions of Teaching Presence"

F.45

6-Information Technologies

Engaging L2 Writers in a Cross-Cultural Multimodal
Online Writing Curriculum: Creating a Broader
Understanding of Our Disciplinary Landscape

We will present the results of a study that followed an experimental online
multimodal writing course aimed to engage L2 writers.

C121
Chair: Michelle Stuckey, Arizona State University, Tempe
Speakers: Andrew Bourelle, University of New Mexico
Tiffany Bourelle, University of New Mexico
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico
Mariya Tseptsura, University of New Mexico

F.46

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

How Captioning Cultivates Change

The compositional and rhetorical processes of captioning as dual acts of
access and aesthetics, form and content, style and substance.

B119
Chair: Tonya Stremlau, Gallaudet University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Brenda Brueggemann, University of Connecticut
Janine Butler, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Chad Iwertz, The Ohio State University

204

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 204

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.47

9-Professional and Technical Writing

We Can Charge for That? The Ins and Outs of Creating
and Running a Usability Lab
This roundtable discusses creating and running a university-based
usability lab to help attendees facilitate their own labs and research.

D137
Speakers: Michael Brooks, Auburn University
Joyce Carter, University of Arkansas, Little Rock
Jimmy Ginn, UX Firm
Tharon Howard, Clemson University
Laura Palmer, Kennesaw State University–Marietta Campus
Derek Ross, Auburn University
Virginia Spears, Auburn University
Ed Youngblood, Auburn University

F.48

10-Research

Understanding Writing Students' Perspectives on
Instructor Feedback

Presenters use various research methodologies to gain more accurate
understandings about how students take up and apply instructor feedback
on their writing.

C125
Chair: Emily Cooney, University of North Alabama
Speakers: Andrea Beaudin, Texas Tech University, "Student Reception
and Application of Instructor Feedback: A UX Analysis"
Amanda Brooks, Florida State University, "(Un)Sure Writers: SelfEfficacy Fluctuations and the Writing Process"
Tyler Carter, Purdue University, "A Corpus Analysis of FYC Student
Perceptions of Written Teacher Feedback"
Laura Gabrion, Oakland University, "Nurturing Self-Efficacy: Using
Revision Plans to Enhance Instructor Feedback"
Suthathip Thirakunkovit, Mahidol University, "A Corpus Analysis of FYC
Student Perceptions of Written Teacher Feedback"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 205

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 205

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.49

3-Community, Civic & Public

Cultivating Civic Literacy in Generation Why? Rhetorical
Engagement and Citizen Awareness in Composition
Classrooms
As teachers of writing, we are uniquely positioned to foster a sense of
agency by promoting civic literacy in and outside the classroom.

E144
Speakers: June Johnson Bube, Seattle University, "Cultivating Citizenship
through Rhetorical Practices in Ethical Listening, Collaboration, and
Negotiation"
Beth Maxfield, Henderson State University, "Cultivating Resistance
to the Status Quo: One Approach to Raising Civic Awareness in the
Composition Classroom"
Tara Roth, Seattle University, "Writing for Arts Advocacy and Civic
Responsibility through Academic Service-Learning"

F.50

3-Community, Civic & Public

Politicizing Community Action Pedagogy and Research
Three perspectives on public intellectualism.

B110
Chair: Rachael Wendler Shah, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Beth Huber, Western Carolina University, "UnKoch My
Classroom: Dark Money and the Composition Classroom"
Kyle Larson, Miami University, "Counterpublic Intellectualism:
Cultivating the Capacity for Public Engagement"
Seth Myers, University of Colorado Boulder, "Digital Action Research:
Students Creating Change in Mediated Communities"

F.51

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Cultivating Transfer with the Teaching-for-Transfer
Writing Curriculum: A National Multi-Institutional Study

This panel shares findings from a two-year and four-year college multiinstitutional study on the efficacy of the Teaching for Transfer curriculum.

A106
Speakers: Sonja Andrus, University of Cincinnati/Blue Ash College, OH
Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College
Tonya Ritola, University of California Santa Cruz
Kara Taczak, University of Denver
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College

206

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 206

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

F.52

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Bodies and Minds

These presentations discuss embodied learning in the writing classroom.

D132
Chair: Hidy Basta, Antioch University Seattle
Speakers: Jennifer LeMesurier, Colgate University, "Loosening the
Semiotic Shackles: Critically Engaging with Performing Bodies"
Ana Isabel Roncero-Bellido, Illinois State University, "Embracing
Students' Diverse Literacies through a Pedagogy of the Flesh"
Ernest Stromberg, California State University, Monterey Bay, "Writing
and the Rhetorics of Healing"

F.53

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Making Capacities: The Maker Movement and Writing
Studies

This panel maps ways that making and makerspaces can inform pedagogy,
theory, disciplinary identity, and community research and engagement.

D139
Speakers: David Sheridan, Michigan State University
John Sherrill, Purdue University
Ann Shivers-McNair, University of Washington
Rick Wysocki, University of Louisville

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 207

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 207

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

G Sessions: 9:30–10:45 a.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Leadership

G.01	 Cultivating Leadership on and off Campus: A
Roundtable with Senior Administrators

In this Cultivate roundtable, senior faculty who have served in
multiple leadership roles will discuss how leadership skills and
strategies cross over into areas both expected and unexpected, on and
off campus, and how we might communicate these to junior faculty
in order to cultivate future leaders. After each facilitator briefly shares
his or her unique experiences and insights, attendees will have the
opportunity to engage in Q & A and discussion about effective and
proactive leadership strategies.

Portland Ballroom 253
Chair: Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College
Respondent: Douglas Hesse, The University of Denver, Colorado
Facilitators: Lynee Gaillet, Georgia State University, Atlanta, "Being
'The Fixer'"
Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, "Using Leadership
Skills off Campus"
Barbara L'Eplattenier, University of Arkansas–Little Rock, "Not Just
Lifting as We Climb, but Making Room"
Barry Maid, Arizona State University, Phoenix, "Campus Leadership
in Times of Austerity"
Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Whose
Side Are You On?"
Shirley Rose, Arizona State University, "Faculty Shared Governance:
Leading by Example"
Susan Thomas, The University of Sydney, Australia, "Promoting
Leadership beyond US Borders"
Think Tank on Advocating for Fair Compensation

G.02	 Change That Pays the Bills

Many institutions of higher education highlight the importance of
students developing strong written and verbal communication skills,
yet the educators who tirelessly deliver the courses that cultivate
those skills are often not adequately compensated for their work. This
Think Tank will focus on pooling participants' collective knowledge
of ways to advocate for fair compensation at the state, institution, and

208

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 208

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

programmatic levels. Participants can expect to join in a conversation
in which they have the opportunity to both identify and learn about
strategies and resources that those in attendance know have helped
faculty members make positive strides toward just salaries. This
collaborative effort asks participants to move beyond ruminating on
the problem of low compensation and instead focus on teaching each
other how to create positive change so we, as educators, can afford to
continue teaching composition.

Portland Ballroom 258
Facilitators: Stacey Johnson, University of Colorado at Colorado
Springs
Jennifer McArdle, University of Colorado at Colorado Springs
Cultivating Persistence and Success for International Students

G.03	 Retention = Success (?): Fostering International
Student Persistence and Achievement

In this interactive Cultivate session, second language writing specialists
from graduate-level English for academic purposes (EAP) and firstyear composition programs share stories of working in diverse settings
to develop and evaluate innovative EAP and composition curricula to
improve international, multilingual learners' retention and achievement.
After discussing examples of small but meaningful victories achieved
with initiatives such as embedded tutorials, stretch programs, and
intensive academic language courses, participants will develop
strategies for overcoming challenges at their own institutions.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Greer Murphy, Claremont Graduate University
Sarah Snyder, Arizona State University
Cultivating New Lines of Inquiry

G.04	 Cultivating New Lines of Inquiry: Three Emerging
Scholarly Spaces

This Cultivate session offers a shared space for three new lines of
scholarly inquiry: Borderlands (Multilingual Latinx Writers), Rural
Research and Advocacy, and Public Land Activism.

Portland Ballroom 256
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 209

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 209

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Cultivating New Lines of Inquiry: Expanding Research and
Advocacy for Multilingual Latinx Writers in the Borderlands
and Beyond
Conversations about the role and importance of linguistic diversity in
composition have been ongoing for decades, starting with (and before)
the 1974 Students' Rights to Their Own Language resolution. This
interactive session will engage the audience in a discussion about new
research methods and advocacy/pedagogical models for incorporating
linguistic diversity in writing instruction. The session is guided by the
following questions:
•	 (How) Do current theories and orientations to linguistic diversity
in composition reflect and account for the diverse histories and
experiences of our students?
•	 How do we continue to develop practical methods for researching
language difference in composition?
Presenters will facilitate a crowdsourcing activity to invite
contributions from the audience on theories and frameworks they use
in multilingual research and advocacy (e.g., second language writing,
translingualism, trans/multimodality, etc.).
Facilitators: Beth Brunk-Chavez, University of Texas at El Paso
Lucia Dura, University of Texas at El Paso
Laura Gonzales, University of Texas at El Paso
Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso
Todd Ruecker, University of New Mexico
Cultivating New Lines of Inquiry: Rural Research and Advocacy
A session for scholars engaged in, or interested in beginning, research
and advocacy in composition, rhetoric, and literacy studies as they
pertain to rural education and rural literacies, whether that work takes
place in schools, colleges, universities, nonprofits, or communities in
rural areas. Since the publication of Rural Literacies in 2007, research
into rural literacies and rhetorics has grown, with follow-up edited
collections as well as numerous presentations, dissertations, articles,
and community action projects. This session invites those interested in
rural literacies together to:
•	 share their current projects,
•	 locate themselves with and speak back to the existing work on rural
literacies,
•	 form new connections for possible collaborations, whether in the
classroom or in research or community projects, and

210

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 210

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

•	 discover ways to be engaged in advocating for rural places, schools,
and communities to have more of a public voice and public
recognition.
Facilitators: Megan Adams, The University of Findlay
Cori Brewster, Eastern Oregon University
Chowaing Chagra Belekeh, University of Texas at El Paso
Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota
Abby Dubisar, Iowa State University
Helen Diana Eidson, Auburn University
Charlotte Hogg, Texas Christian University
Callie Kostelich, Texas Christian University
Caleb Pendygraft, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Marisa Sandoval Lamb, Columbia Basin College and University of
Arizona
Eileen Schell, Syracuse University
W. Kurt Stavenhagen, Syracuse University
Cultivating New Lines of Inquiry: Public Land Activism
This session cultivates new lines of inquiry and research opportunities
that focus on social action for all scholars in attendance. Because of our
own research interests and the theme and location of the conference,
we will be using the issue of public/private land use generally and
the Malheur Refuge occupation specifically as touchstones to anchor
the conversation. This session draws theoretical insights from
ecocomposition, ecocriticism, organizational communication theory,
conflict resolution, stasis theory, and rhetorical analysis as tools for
social action on these issues. Potential areas of research collaboration
include issues such as land use, indigeneity, ethical food sourcing,
and social and geographic borders, and a way to move from theory to
action on such topics. This Cultivate session is intended to be a place
for scholars to share how they have developed new lines of inquiry
that allow for productive research motivated by (and deeply attuned
to) social action. Rather than presenting our compendium of strategies
as an end game, we want to combine our ideas in a lively conversation
with session participants in the hopes that all in attendance will walk
away with a handy take-home toolkit of dynamic and editable strategies
for rhetoric and composition scholarship as well as new writing
partners to get our collaborative work published.
Facilitators: Douglas Christensen, University of Utah
Joshua Lenart, University of Utah
David Sumner, Linfield College
Jessie Woolley-Richards, University of Utah

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 211

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 211

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

14—Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.05	 Queer Mentorship and the Risks of Creating Change

Sponsored by the Queer Caucus
"Creating change" carries great risk for many LGBT2Q people. Queer
mentorship helps and may provide a model for institutional change.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University
Speakers: Rob Faunce, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, CUNY,
"Affect, Intersectionality, and the Queer Moment in Composition"
Leida Mae, Oregon State University, "Intimacy with Strangers:
'Coming Out' for Service and the Perilous Rhetorics of (In)voluntary
Vulnerability"
Eric Pritchard, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Living
History: Black Queer Elders, Mentoring, and Intergenerational Social
Change"
12-Theory

G.07	 Cultivating Critical Approaches to Internationalization:
Examining Asian/Asian American Literacies and Identities
This panel illuminates the tension we find in students who defy linguistic
and national categorization.

C123
Speakers: Yu-Kyung Kang, Gonzaga University
Eileen Lagman, University of Colorado Boulder
Thomas Mcnamara, California State University, Fresno
Kaia Simon, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.08	 The Information (Literacy) Superhighway: Cultivating
Change in Writing Classrooms and Writing Programs
This session will examine two pieces of the changing picture of
information literacy's place in the writing classroom.

B115
Speakers: Joy Adams, American University–NEW Bender Library
Alex Hodges, American University
Jenise Overmier, American University–NEW Bender Library
Alison Thomas, American University

212

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 212

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

G.09	 Where Do Lecturers Fit? Exploring the Culture of Change
through the Study of Full-Time Non-Tenure-Track Faculty
Experiences

This panel will discuss a local study investigating lecturers' perceptions of
emotional labor and burnout.

C120
Speakers: Tiffany Hitesman, Boise State University
Lana Kuchta, Boise State University
Carrie Seymour, Boise State University
9-Professional and Technical Writing

G.10	 Translating Inclusivity in Technical Communication

Panelists explore possibilities for design practices that foster inclusivity.

C122
Chair: Michael Pemberton, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro
Speakers: Natasha Jones, University of Central Florida, "Cultivating
Capacity, Creating Change: Disability, Design, and Inclusion"
Mary Ann Saunders, University of British Columbia, "How Do You
Wish to Be Cited? How Trans Scholars Change How We Think about
Citation"
Katja Thieme, University of British Columbia, "How Do You Wish to Be
Cited? How Trans Scholars Change How We Think about Citation"
Massimo Verzella, Penn State Erie, The Behrend College, "Translation
Is UX: Learning about Cultural Differences through the Study of
Rhetorical Shifts"
Stephanie Wheeler, University of Central Florida, "Cultivating Capacity,
Creating Change: Disability, Design, and Inclusion"
13-Writing Programs

G.11	 Composition, Interdisciplinarity, and the Limitations of
the Traditional English Department in the 21st Century:
Cautionary Tales and New Collaborations
This panel explores the complex, evolving, and at times contentious
relationships between English departments and composition programs.

F149
Chair: Jason Palmeri, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford
Speakers: Tracy Carrick, Cornell University, "Anywhere but Here:
Exploring Why Students Avoid English-Based Composition Courses"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 213

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 213

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Dan Collins, Guttman Community College, "Rule #1: Avoid the D-Word"
Derek Owens, St. John's University, "Imagining an Interdisciplinary
Writing Studies Minor"
Matthew Pavesich, Georgetown University, "Leveraging Composition's
New Cool"
Tara Roeder, St. John's University, "We Already Have a Writing Minor:
Reclaiming Composition in the 21st Century"
Peter Vandenberg, DePaul University, "(A) Value Proposition:
Remediating the 'Service Course' Mentality"
Respondent: Roseanne Gatto-Dominici, St. John's University
6-Information Technologies

G.12	 Beyond "Best Practices" in OWI: Proposing Processes
for Online FYC
The speakers extend the concept of OWI best practices to include
instructor-centered processes for designing and managing online FYC.

F151
Speakers: Collin Bjork, Indiana University, "Ethics of the Interface: A
Process of Virtue"
Michael Lutz, Indiana University, "Beyond Gamification: What Can Game
Design Teach Us about the Online Classroom?"
Alex Penn, Indiana University, "More Than a Tool: Using (and Teaching)
Web-Conferencing Software to Co-Create a Classroom"
Respondent: Justin Hodgson, Indiana University
12-Theory

G.13	 Posthuman Subjectivity and Nonhuman Rhetoric

Speakers discuss issues of posthuman subjectivity, nonhuman rhetoric, and
vitalism.

D134
Chair: Josh Lederman, Brandeis University
Speakers: Lisa Bailey, University of South Carolina, Columbia,
"Cultivating Capacity for Invention by Collaborating with Ambient,
Nonhuman Agents"
Baotong Gu, Georgia State University, "Face, Precious Memories, and
Poetic Rhetoric vs. Dis/appearance of Reality"
Chelsea Skelley, The University of Miami, "Rhetorical 'Interfacings':
Positing 'Interface Studies' to Foster Posthuman Subjectivity"
Xiaobo Wang, Georgia State University, "Face, Precious Memories, and
Poetic Rhetoric vs. Dis/appearance of Reality"
Robert Wilkie, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, "Composing the
Nonhuman: Class and Vitalist Rhetoric"

214

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 214

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.14	 Rhetorics of Literacy and Social Justice: Definitions and
Consequences

This panel examines the complex relationship between literacy and social
justice in both academic and nonacademic spheres.

F150
Chair: Anna Knutson, University of Michigan
Speakers: Sam Head, The Ohio State University, "Literacy's Social
Rhetoric among the Somali Immigrants of Columbus, Ohio"
Casey Otemuyiwa, University of Michigan, "What Does 'Social Justice'
Mean? A Review of Its Use in NCTE Journals"
Bonnie Tucker, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "What Do We Really
Mean When We Say Someone Is Illiterate? Literacy Discourse in the
US Media 1990–2015"
5-History

G.15	 Already Seeing, Always Looking: The History of Visual
Literacy and Instruction in the Long Nineteenth Century
Using archival data, our presentation explores literacy as "always,
already" visual and examines the resulting ideological implications.

D131
Chair: Lauren Salisbury, Bowling Green State University, "Now and
Then, Then and Now: Twenty-First Century Implications for Visual
Learning"
Speakers: Sara Austin, Bowling Green State University, "Tools, Techné,
and Training: Visual Instruction in Normal Schools"
Kelly Moreland, Bowling Green State University, "Embodied Curation:
Translating the Archives for a Digital Space"
3-Community, Civic & Public

G.16	 Sponsoring Civic Engagement and Activism at the
Two-Year College

This panel demonstrates how a two-year college writing course sequence
can actively sponsor community literacies and social justice.

E144
Speakers: Jane E. Hindman, Guttman Community College, CUNY,
"Inventing the Community: Developmental Students as Neighborhood
Activists"
Charles Jordan, Guttman Community College, CUNY, "Social Action:
Letter Writing for Social Justice"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 215

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 215

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Nate Mickelson, Guttman Community College, CUNY, "Reading Citizens,
Being Citizens: Using Poetry to Develop Transferable Writing Skills"
Vanita Naidoo, Guttman Community College, CUNY, "Reimagining
Proficiency: Building Academic Skills through Analysis of Class,
Institutional Surveillance, and Social Justice"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.17	 Listening Up, Taking Action: Conditions for Countering
Injustice and Enacting More Equitable Relations

This panel identifies three sets of rhetorical conditions toward countering
injustice and creating change toward more equitable relations.

E141
Chair: Cedric Burrows, Marquette University
Speakers: Rasha Diab, The University of Texas at Austin, "The
Conditions for Being: Toward an Affiliative Disposition"
Thomas Ferrel, University of Missouri–Kansas City, "The Conditions for
Doing: Actualizing New Visions toward Creating Change"
Beth Godbee, Marquette University, "The Conditions for Seeing:
Cultivating Capacity through Counter-Conditioning"
Respondent: Cedric Burrows, Marquette University
8-Language

G.18	 Interdisciplinary Landscapes: Developing a Collaborative
Professional Development in Multilingual Pedagogy for
Writing and Language Programs
Panel offers a translingual interdisciplinary teacher development and
pedagogical framework to cultivate multilingual students' abilities.

D135
Speakers: Alyssa Cavazos, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley,
"A Translingual Approach to Professional Development for First-Year
Spanish and Writing Instructors"
Marcela Hebbard, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Crystal Rodriguez, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Geoffrey Schwarz, The University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.19	 Exploring Narrative and Identity through Genre
This panel explores issues of cultural identity.

A103
Chair: Paul Shovlin, Binghamton University, NY

216

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 216

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Speakers: Sara Kelm, Texas Christian University, "A Conversion
Narrative: The Effect of Adapting a Narrative from Paper to Audio on
Students and the Classroom Community"
Karla Knutson, Concordia College, "Ethnographic Remix: Cultivating
Transfer for First-Year Writers"
Johanna Schmertz, University of Houston-Downtown, "Cultivating
Transformative Literacy Narratives"
2-Basic Writing

G.20	 Basic Writing Redesign: Cultivating Student Growth and
Faculty Collaboration

Panelists will present how their Basic Writing program has been
transformed with the adoption of an integrated reading and writing course.

C124
Speakers: Susan Grace, Wright College
Kim Knutson, Wright College, City Colleges of Chicago
Maria Ortiz, City Colleges of Chicago–HWC
Tara Whitehair, Wright College
6-Information Technologies

G.21	 On Beyond Expressivism in Digital Storytelling

Panel explores digital storytelling beyond its current expressionist
orientation.

D137
Speakers: Casey Boyle, The University of Texas at Austin, "Hello, Story!"
Trisha Campbell, University of Pittsburgh, PA, "The Voice You Speak
with May Not Be Your Own"
Jodie Nicotra, University of Idaho, "Composing 'Found Narratives'"
Nathaniel Rivers, Saint Louis University, "Serial Exposition"
13-Writing Programs

G.22	 Cultivating the Data for New Kinds of Writing Support:
An Empirical Study of Writing Fellows in the First-Year
Writing Classroom

This session reports findings from an empirical study of Writing Fellows
in first-year writing classrooms.

E147
Chair: Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University
Speakers: Michelle Hager, San Jose State University, "Let's Talk about
Ideas: How Students in First-Year Writing Courses Use Writing
Fellows"

continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 217

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 217

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Thomas Moriarty, San Jose State University, "Let's Talk Numbers:
Measuring the Value of Embedded Writing Support"
Pat Walls, San Jose State University, "Let's Compare Data: How Students
in First-Year Writing Courses Engage with Writing Center Tutors"
10-Research

G.23	 Writing Our Worlds "For Another First Time":
Ethnomethodological Approaches to Studying Literate
Action

Draws from several research studies to explore the history, current uses,
and potential futures for ethnomethodology in writing research.

E143
Speakers: Ryan Dippre, University of Maine
Stacey Pigg, North Carolina State University
Paul Prior, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.24	 Finding Leverage Points to Cultivate More Engagement in
Online Feedback and Revision
This panel identifies new ways teachers can describe peer commenting,
overcome student resistance, monitor effort, and value contributions.

B118
Speakers: Charles Donelan, Santa Barbara Independent, "Peer Review as
Digital Writing: Expanding the Discursive Range of Online Comments"
James Donelan, University of California, Santa Barbara, "The Intrusive
Instructor and the Nosy Neighbor: Online Peer Review, Process, and
Student Resistance"
Michael Edwards, Washington State University, Pullman, "A Digital
Pedagogy for Economically Diverse Valuations of Intellectual Labor
and Capital"
Melissa Graham Meeks, Gordon State College, "Mapping Early Indicators
and Tipping Points in Online Feedback and Revision"
13-Writing Programs

G.25	 Placement Testing under Fire and the Efficacy of Writing
Center Assessment
This panel examines alternative placement solutions and challenges in
assessing writing centers.

E148
Chair: Darin Jensen, University of Nebraska-Lincoln

218

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 218

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Speakers: William Condon, Washington State University, "Everything
You and Your Bosses Need to Know about Why Large, Commercial
Assessments Are a Bad Idea"
Tristin Hooker, Missouri State University, "Necessity Is the Mother of
Community: New Writing Centers in the Era of Self-Placement"
Prabin Lama, Virginia Tech, "Do They Know What We Do? Making the
Contribution of Writing Centers Visible through Assessment"
Michele Lockhart, The University of Texas at Dallas, "Local Placement
under Fire: Changing English Placement Policy from 2005 to 2015 in
Texas"
Kathleen Mollick, Tarleton State University, "Local Placement under Fire:
Changing English Placement Policy from 2005 to 2015 in Texas"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.26	 Cultivating Safe Spaces in the Urban Public University
A panel of four CUNY educators presents research and pedagogy on
cultivating safe spaces that increase students' academic engagement.

D139
Speakers: Sau-Fong Au, Brooklyn College, "A Center of One's Own:
Creating an Intentional/Unintentional Space to Support Diverse Student
Populations"
Robin Ford, Queensborough Community College, "Critical Spatial
Literacy: Understanding Students' Need for Safe Texts"
Nava Renek, Brooklyn College, "A Center of One's Own: Creating
an Intentional/Unintentional Space to Support Diverse Student
Populations"
Joanna Sit, Medgar Evers College, "'Come As You Are': Safe to Write in
the Sartorial Vernacular"
Bakar Wilson, Borough of Manhattan Community College, "Cultivating
Safe Spaces/Community for LGBT Students"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.27	 Twenty-Five Years of Faith in Writing: Religion and
Composition, 1992–2017

This panel will challenge conventional understandings and definitions of
religion and its emergence in the composition classroom.

A106
Speakers: Patrick Brooks, Saint Louis University
Paul Lynch, Saint Louis University
Matthew Miller, Saint Louis University
Respondent: Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 219

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 219

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.28	 Methods of Mentorship

Diverse perspectives on the opportunities and challenges facing students
and mentors in and beyond the university.

F152
Chair: Matthew Warner, North Dakota State University
Speakers: Brittany Hull, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "'I'm
Takin' My Ass Home': Feminist Mentoring as a Necessity for African
American Women Composition Doctoral Candidates"
Ashley Patriarca, West Chester University, "The University in Plain
Language: Cultivating Communication with Underrepresented
Minority and First-Generation Students"
Maria Soriano, John Carroll University, University Heights, OH, "Mind
the Gaps: Using the CCCC Statement on Preparing Teachers of College
Writing to Cultivate Connections for Graduate Teaching Assistants"
Erin Wecker, University of Montana, "'Grounded in Tradition. Charging
into the Future': Cultivating Success for Students Transitioning from
Tribal Colleges to Four-Year Institutions"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.29	 Listening to Learn, Learning to Listen

These presentations investigate student feedback in writing conferences
and as located in first-day writing samples.

D132
Chair: Kathryn Comer, Barry University
Speakers: Kelly Blewett, University of Cincinnati, "Why and How to
Carefully Read First-Day Writing Samples"
Lisa Swan, University of Maryland, College Park, "Cultural Mismatches:
A Case Study of Student Perspectives of Writing Conferences"
Terese Thonus, University of Kansas, "Metaphorical Feedback and
Student Revision"
12-Theory

G.30	 Cultivating Space for Augmented Reality in Writing
Studies Research

This panel examines the theoretical, pedagogical, and historical
implications of Augmented Reality for writing and rhetorical studies.

B119
Speakers: Scot Barnett, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Augmented
Reality, or the Cultural Logic of Nonmodernity"
Shannon Butts, University of Florida, "Writing Mobilities, Augmenting
Space, and Cultivating Re-vision"

220

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 220

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Jacob Greene, University of Florida, "From Augmentation to Articulation:
(Hyper)linking the Spaces of Public Writing"
4-Creative Writing

G.31	 Grief and Pedagogy: Seeing Creating Writing as Therapy

Speakers consider how memoirs and personal narratives enable writers to
grieve.

B110
Chair: Leigh Jones, Hunter College, CUNY
Speakers: John Branscum, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Narrative
Intersections between Writing as Art and Writing as Therapy"
Elizabeth Howells, Armstrong State University, GA, "The Art of Losing:
Reflections on Reading and Teaching, Re-visioning, and Regeneration"
Madaline Walter, Benedictine College, Atchison, KS, "Has It Changed?
Exploring the Rhetoric of Neurodivergent Memoirs over Time"
Tana Wojczuk, Columbia University, "Fail Better"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.32	 Epistemological Play and Cultivating Impactful
Relationships through Gamification of Learning in the
Classroom, Campus, and Communities

Cultivating relationships through play moves writers within, between, and
beyond the classroom to nurture growing applications for writing.

B114
Chair: Sherena Huntsman, Utah State University
Speakers: Sherena Huntsman, Utah State University, "Playing with
Service-Learning and Community Partnerships"
Jennifer Scucchi, Utah State University, "Playing Well with Others in the
Composition Classroom"
Bethany Shirley, Utah State University, "Interdisciplinary Research and
the Academic Playground"
12-Theory

G.33	 Research on Responding to Student Writing: What
Comments Do

Panelists examine the interconnections between student self-efficacy,
instructor comments, and learning to write.

C121
Speakers: Darsie Bowden, DePaul University
Carolyn Vos, DePaul University
Bridget Wagner, DePaul University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 221

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 221

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

8-Language

G.34	 Feedback, Evaluation, and Collaboration in Multilingual
Writing

This panel brings together conversations on the roles of collaboration and
feedback in the growth and changes of multilingual students' writing.

B117
Chair: Ollie O. Oviedo, Eastern New Mexico University, Portales
Speakers: David Frear, Zayed University, "A New Methodological
Approach to the Provision of Written Corrective Feedback as Part of
the Process Approach to Writing"
Kyung Min Kim, Miami University, "Collaboration and Negotiation of
Voices: Multiple Sources of Feedback Merge"
Xiaoqiong You, University of New Hampshire, "The Role of Collaborative
Writing in Socializing Multilingual Writers into the Business School"
10-Research

G.35	 Engaging Pedagogies

Panel participants describe myriad pedagogical approaches aimed at
deepening students' engagement in the work of the writing classroom.

C125
Chair: Eliot Parker, Mountwest Community and Technical College
Speakers: Rachel Chapman, Texas Christian University, "Feminist
Seeking Classroom Research: Tracing Studies of Feminist Pedagogy in
Writing Courses"
Dale Grauman, Iowa State University, "Cultivating Students' Value of
First-Year Composition through Genre Pedagogy"
Matthew Zajic, University of California, Davis, "College Writing
Instructors and Inclusive Instruction: Self-Reported Attitudes and
Behaviors Pertaining to Universal Design and Accessibility"
10-Research

G.36	 Exploring the Archival Depths: Using Primary Sources
from Special Collections in First-Year Composition

Faculty detail their findings teaching first-year composition with a focus
on archival research.

E142
Speakers: Agnieszka Czeblakow, University of Texas at San Antonio
Christina Frasier, University of Texas at San Antonio
Darren Meritz, University of Texas at San Antonio

222

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 222

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.37	 Face to Face and Interface

This panel examines collaboration in the writing classroom, specifically
toward new learning interfaces.

C126
Chair: Stephen McElroy, Florida State University
Speakers: Kathryn Douglas, Fairleigh Dickinson University,
"Unstructured Collaborations: Partnerships That Embrace Multiliteracy
to Cultivate Voice, Sustain Conversation, and Lead to Activism"
Ethan Jordan, Bowling Green State University, "An Ecology of Interfaces:
Transparency through User-Centered Design in FYC"
John Miles, Wofford College, "Building Capacities for Change: Student
Reflection, ePortfolios, and Writing across the College"
5-History

G.38	 Feminist Historiography: Uncovering Rhetorical Activism
Panelists consider how religion, science, and "professionalism" both
constrain and liberate women writers.

B111
Chair: Donna Evans, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande
Speakers: Paige Banaji, Barry University, "All the News That's Fit to
Print: Campus through International News Coverage in the Anglicus, a
Women's College Newspaper, 1960–1969"
Jennifer Burgess, The Ohio State University, Columbus, "The Rhetorical
Force of Business Writing: Catholic Women's Groups and a Rhetoric of
Business Ethos"
Carolyn Skinner, The Ohio State University, "The Popular Reception of
Sex in Education: Coeducation, Medicine, and the Construction of
Gender"
Amy Stolley, Grand Valley State University, "Inviting Conversation:
Catherine McAuley's Rhetoric of Religious Difference"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.39	 Cultivating Knowledge to Foster Program Development:
Utilizing Data from a Five-Year Study of a Large
Advanced Writing Program
The panel discusses a survey of more than 8,500 students in advanced
writing courses, looking at issues of transfer, diversity, and WPA
awareness.

A105
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 223

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 223

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Speakers: Dana Ferris, University of California, Davis
Hogan Hayes, California State University, Sacramento
Sean McDonnell, University of California, Davis
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.40	 Dual Enrollment: Cultivating Inquiry and Considering
Implications

This panel details various methods of inquiry that focus on the
implications of students taking college writing courses in high school.

Portland Ballroom 251
Chair: Jaime Armin Mejía, Texas State University
Speakers: Christine Denecker, The University of Findlay, "When the
Right Hand Knows What the Left Is Doing: What the Composition
Field Can Learn from Concurrent Enrollment Partnerships"
Christine Farris, Indiana University, "Access and Disciplinarity in
Concurrent Enrollment Composition"
Casie Moreland, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Access for 'All'?
Validating the Fairness of Dual-Credit Composition Placement Testing"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.41	 Leading with Mindfulness: Creating Contemplative
University Writing Cultures

We extend increasingly popular contemplative pedagogies to create
mindful writing and learning cultures across our campuses.

A108
Chair: Asao Inoue, University of Washington, Tacoma
Speakers: Emily Beals, California State University, Fresno,
"Contemplative and Connected: Mindful Assessment Creates Mindful
Learning"
Jennifer Consilio, Lewis University, "Making MAC (Mindfulness Across
the Curriculum) Happen: Creating a Mindful Campus Culture"
Donna Strickland, University of Missouri, "When Faculty Write
Mindfully: Toward a Secure Base"
Christy Wenger, Shepherd University, Shepherdstown, WV, "WPA as
Witness: Developing Mindful Presence in a Writing Program"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.42	 Strategies for Implementing Feedback and Assessment

Presenters will discuss course contracts, writing assessment, and feedback
in first-year composition.

A104

224

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 224

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Chair: Kevin Roozen, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Speakers: Daniel Ernst, Purdue University, "Writing Assessment and the
New College Admissions"
Joyce Inman, University of Southern Mississippi, "Understanding Work
and Change in the Composition Classroom via Course Contracts"
Maria Treglia, Bronx Community College, New York, "Cultivating
Marginal Feedback: Are Students and Teachers on the Same Page?"
8-Language

G.43	 Emotion and Anti-Racist Rhetorics in Writing Studies:
Anger as Performance-Rhetoric

This panel explores the roles that emotion and performance play in antiracist practices and pedagogies within rhetoric and composition.

D138
Speakers: Frances Condon, University of Waterloo, Canada
Niesha-Anne Green, American University, Washington, DC
Douglas Kern, University of Maryland, College Park
Vershawn Young, University of Waterloo, Canada
4-Creative Writing

G.44	 A Symbiotic (and Pedagogical) Relationship: Forging an
Alliance between Creative Nonfiction and Composition

Three teacher-writer-scholars engage with intersections between creative
nonfiction and composition in theory, pedagogy, and practice.

D133
Speakers: Michael Healy, Florida State University
Klayton Kasperbauer, University of Nebraska at Omaha
Jessica Thomsen, Florida State University
3-Community, Civic & Public

G.45	 Religion Matters: Cultivating Public Voices in
Composition

Panelists discuss the affordances of engagement at the intersection of
religious studies and secular matters in the composition classroom.

A109
Chair: Cathrine White-Hoekstra, Southern Illinois University/John A.
Logan College
Speakers: Pearce Durst, North Central College, "Proclaiming Faith among
Institutional Persuasions: Cultivating Authentic Public Voices"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 225

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 225

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

David Holmes, Pepperdine University, Seaver College, "Black Religion
Matters: African American Prophecy as a Theoretical Frame for
Rhetorical Critique"
Myra Salcedo, University of Texas of the Permian Basin,
"Logoreligiology: Grappling with the Persistent Presence of the
Rhetoric of Religious Words in the Secular Composition Classroom"
Nathan Wagner, Georgia State University, "Keeping the Faith: Student
Belief as Academic Discourse"
3-Community, Civic & Public

G.46	 Cultivating Change in Graduate Education: (Re)thinking
Training for Politically Progressive Community Projects

Through four snapshots of university-community partnerships, we call for
more preparation for politically progressive community work.

E146
Chair: Stephen Parks, Syracuse University
Speakers: Kathleen Daly, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Beyond
Reflective Writing Assignments: Helping Students Think Critically
about University-Community Partnerships"
Chris Earle, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "What Forms of Rhetorical
Agency Are Possible in Prison?"
Annika Konrad, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Negotiating the
Use-Value of Non-Uplifting Rhetorics of Disability in a UniversityCommunity Partnership"
Maria Novotny, Michigan State University, "Navigating Graduate
Rhetorical Labor: Institutional Challenges to Collaboration with an
Infertility Advocacy Organization"
Respondent: Stephen Parks, Syracuse University
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

G.47	 Crop Rotation: Toward a Holistic Cultivation of Graduate
Writers
Complicates traditional understanding of graduate students' genres,
methods, and purposes.

A107
Speakers: Rhiannon Goad, The University of Texas at Austin, "Graduate
Students and Public Scholarship in Digital Environments"
Hannah V. Harrison, The University of Texas at Austin, "Academics Alone
Together: Graduate Writers and Their Feedback Networks"
Mary Hedengren, The University of Texas at Austin, "Academics Alone
Together: Graduate Writers and Their Feedback Networks"
Thomas Lindsay, The University of Texas at Austin, "Attrition and
Decision-Making Literacy for Doctoral Students"

226

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 226

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.48	 Beyond the Discourse of Crisis Management:
Internationalizing Composition through Multidisciplinary
Collaboration

A multidisciplinary team shares how collaborating to internationalize firstyear writing improved their teaching and the L1 curriculum.

B116
Speakers: Sheila Boland Chira, University of Vermont
Emily Crist, Champlain College
Libby Miles, University of Vermont
Benjamin Sienicki, University of Vermont
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.49	 "Makin' Somethin' Outta Little-to-Nufin'': Revisionist
Histories, Liberatory Practices, and the Composition
Classroom

This panel provides tools for implementing hip-hop pedagogy in the comp
classroom, cultivating a new frontier of student-centered learning.

B113
Chair: Todd Craig, Medgar Evers College–CUNY
Speakers: Earl Brooks, The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
"This Is the Remix: Hip-Hop Pedagogy and Radical Revision"
Emilie Koenig, University of Houston, "'Bring That Beat Back': Engaging
Hip-Hop Literacies in the Comp Classroom"
Maurice Wilson, University of Houston, "A Literacy of 'Praxis': Beyond
Words, toward Action"
13-Writing Programs

G.50	 Advocating for Students as Learners through
Implementing the Write Class Placement Process

We describe programmatic and empirical research on the implementation
of the Write Class placement process at four different institutions.

D136
Chair: Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University
Speakers: Rebecca Cantor, Azusa Pacific University, "Placing Emphasis
on Student Voice: One University's Shift to the Write Class"
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID, "Rhetorical Decision Making
and the Write Class"
Angela Hathikhanavala, Henry Ford Community College, "Placement as
Pedagogy, Not Punishment"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 227

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 227

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

Christian Purvis-Aldrich, College of Western Idaho, "Responsive and
Adaptive: Placement in a Community College Context"
Dawn Shepherd, Boise State University, "Rhetorical Decision Making and
the Write Class"
Samantha Sturman, Boise State University, "Refocusing Placement Data
to Support Student Learning"
Respondent: Diane Kelly-Riley, University of Idaho, Moscow
12-Theory

G.51	 Rhetorical Geographies and Cultural Mappings

Panelists explore mapping and geography in relation to rhetorics of
culture, power, and colonization.

D140
Chair: Marie Moeller, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
Speakers: Kyle Boggs, University of Florida, "Writing/Riding:
Bikepacking and the Haunted Geographies of American Subjectivity"
William Garrett-Petts, Thompson Rivers University, "The Vernacular
Rhetoric of Cultural Mapping: Everyday Cartography in the Public
Sphere"
Eileen James, University of Rhode Island, "Digital Rhetoric and Thick
Mapping as Cultural Critique: The Problematic Rhetoric of Manifest
Destiny and the Pioneer Spirit Embodied in 21st-Century Alaskan
Reality Television Programs"
Jake McGinnis, University of Idaho, "The Contested West: Maps, Visual
Rhetoric, and the New Sagebrush Rebellion"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

G.52	 Cultivating Ecocomposition: Enacting, Sustaining, and
Innovating Composition Practices in the Anthropocene
We suggest sustainable, ecologically oriented approaches to cultivating
writing for our current era of unpredictable environmental change.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Lauren Woolbright, Clemson University
Speakers: Chet Breaux, University of Louisiana Lafayette
Ryan Eichberger, University of Minnesota
Juliette Lapeyrouse-Cherry, University of Minnesota
Robert Zandstra, University of Oregon

228

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 228

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 9:30–10:45 a.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

G.53	 Evaluating Teaching, Evaluating Writing

Recognizing the complexity of evaluating writing and writing instruction,
panelists present research on large-scale writing assessments, e-portfolios,
student evaluations of teaching, and feedback on student writing.

B112
Chair: Ji-young Shin, Purdue University
Speakers: Doug Baldwin, Educational Testing Service, "(E)merging
Constructs: Using Extended Reading Stimuli to Assess Writing"
Joseph Forte, Purdue University, "Beyond Anonymity: Reforming Student
Evaluations of Teachers (SETs)"
Jillian Grauman, Iowa State University, "Cultivating the Voices of Novice
Composition Teaching Assistants: A Longitudinal Analysis of New
Teachers' Comments"
Bradley Smith, Governors State University, "Navigating Institutional
Discussions about ePortfolios"
7-Institutional and Professional

G.54	 Sustaining Identity through Cultural Practice(s) as a
Cohort

We examine how our personalities, research, and cultural practices have
provided academic and personal support in creating a cohort.

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Elise Dixon, Michigan State University
Hannah Espinoza, Michigan State University
Shewonda Leger, Michigan State University
Kristi Wiley, Michigan State University
Roundtable Leader: Lauren Brentnell, Michigan State University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

G.55	 We're Glad You're Here: Championing Access, Diversity,
and Transfer through Multimodal Pedagogy
Multimodal pedagogy provides access, celebrates diversity, and
encourages transfer of skills for two-year college students.

E145
Speakers: Sravani Banerjee, Evergreen Valley College, "Celebrating
Diversity with Multiple Modes"
Cheryl Hogue Smith, Kingsborough Community College, "Get in Here:
Multimodality and Art as a Gateway to Academia"
Alan Hutchison, Des Moines Area Community College, "Multimodality,
Learning Communities, and Transfer"
Suzanne Labadie, Oakland Community College, Royal Oak, MI, "Do as I
Do: Multimodal Literacy for Two-Year College Faculty"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 229

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 229

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

H Sessions: 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.
Poster Sessions
Portland Ballroom Lobby
"What kind of paper are you writing?": Writing Centers Address the
Prompt
This poster reports results of a writing center consultant study about pedagogy
development through the lens of assignment prompt analysis.
Jessica Heffner, SUNY Potsdam
Courtney Werner, Monmouth University
Inquiry on Pedagogy-Focused Teaching of Grammar Online: There's an
App for That!
I am researching the use of the digital grammar tool NoRedInk in a classroom
setting. This research examines how students use the tool.
Alyson Leitch, The University of Rhode Island
Writing across Cultures
The presenters invite conversation about an innovative method that interrogates
race and white privilege in first-year writing classes.
Amanda Espinosa-Aguilar, Columbia Basin College, "Using the Model to
Challenge Cultural Assumptions"
Robert Eddy, Washington State University, "The Stages of Intercultural
Experience"
Relationships between Multilingual Writers' Attitudes toward the Writing
Center, Peer Review, and Revision
This session compares multilingual writers' attitudes toward the writing center
with attitudes toward peer review, as related to revision.
Salena Anderson, Valparaiso University
Utilizing Memes with International English Learning Students:
Cultivating Explorations in Language and Popular Culture
FYW assignment for L2 learners involving description, analysis, and creation
of Internet memes, including ideas for resolving challenges.
Janelle Newman, Mercyhurst University

230

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 230

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Technical Poetry: A Case Study of Teaching Poetry to Engineering
Students, and Its Impact on Their Technical Writing
This project is an innovative interdisciplinary approach in teaching technical
writing by incorporating poetry in the curriculum.
Maryam Alikhani, Teachers College, Columbia University
Gathering Evidence: Toward a Deeper Understanding of Feedback on
Writing across the Disciplines
Presentation of the results of a mixed-methods research project investigating
how instructor feedback is defined, practiced, and perceived.
Darci Thoune, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
Researching Basic Writing: Cultivating Multiple Measures Placement
Our poster narrates the methodology and results of a research project that
investigates basic writing placement procedures.
Virginia Crank, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
Sara Heaser, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse
Addressing Transfer Conditions across Disciplines: Cultivating
Connections from First-Year Composition to Upper-Division Engineering
Laboratory Courses
Presents preliminary data on research sponsored by an NSF grant to improve
the writing skills of engineering undergraduates via transfer.
Dave Kim, Washington State University
Wendy Olson, Washington State University Vancouver
Cultivating Change: Assessing Students' Writing and Understanding
the Placement and Reevaluation of Students' Self-Ascribed Roles within
Existing Natural Environments Following an Environmental Literature
and Writing Class
Aimed at understanding how students' writing and sense of place-based
identity are affected by taking an Environmental Writing class.
Yasmin Rioux, Indiana University of Pennsylvania

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 231

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 231

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating a Culture of Teaching

H.01	 Cultivating a Culture of Teaching in Large Composition
Programs

How can we make the actual teaching of writing matter more in large
composition programs? How can we foster communities of teachers in
programs where faculty often feel isolated and unnoticed? How can we
connect the work we do in our programs to what writing teachers are
doing at other sites—including high schools, two-year colleges, and
community literacy groups? This Think Tank hopes to bring together
teachers and administrators from a wide range of institutions to share
ideas about how the design of large composition programs can foster
(or impede) effective teaching. After a brief opening survey of some
current best practices, participants will be asked to work in small
groups to develop a list of concrete strategies for changing the teaching
culture of our programs and departments.

Portland Ballroom 258
Facilitators: Christine Cucciarre, University of Delaware
Joe Harris, University of Delaware
Délice Williams, University of Delaware
Cultivating Visibility for Institutional Service

H.02	 Cultivating Institutional and Administrative Visibility

Despite Boyer's arguments, starting in the 1990s, that universities
should acknowledge their function as places of research and learning,
discussions about administrative and other "service" leadership
positions are oftentimes cautionary tales about taking on such
positions before tenure is secured. Administrative work, typically
labeled as service, does not "count" as much in the tripartite value
system held by most universities that privilege first scholarship, then
teaching, and relatively far below these two, service. Writing program
administrators, as well as writing and technology specialists, have
struggled with making all kinds of writing program technology–related
and administrative work visible at their institutions. This session will
cultivate a space to share strategies that have been effective in making
labor visible. In this session we will share, and have participants share,
strategies for making their labor "visible" within systems that usually
only privilege typical pathways or positions (especially tenure track).
Please consider bringing a laptop, tablet, or smartphone to participate
digitally.

232

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 232

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Susan Miller-Cochran, University of Arizona
Rochelle Rodrigo, University of Arizona
Julia Romberger, Old Dominion University
Cultivating Intellectualism in FYC

H.03	 Public Intellectualism in an Anti-Intellectual Public:
Implications for First-Year Composition

This session was inspired by a recent Chronicle of Higher Education
article titled "Teaching Students to Be Public Intellectuals." We will
discuss how this endeavor can be conducted in the first-year writing
classroom and will address the following questions:
• Where do first-year composition students (and first-year composition
courses) fit into discussions of "the public intellectual"?
• What can we do at the undergrad level to foster a truly intellectual
orientation among students who have been raised in a somewhat
anti-intellectual era?
• What is the distinction between doing "public work" (e.g., servicelearning projects, contributing to nonprofit marketing campaigns,
etc.) and acting as "public intellectuals"?
• How is this year's election rhetoric a reflection of where we are (or
are not) in terms of "public intellectualism"?

Portland Ballroom 251
Facilitators: Brian Harrell, University of Akron
Kristen Weinzapfel, North Central Texas College
Jennifer Young, Tiffin University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 233

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 233

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

H.04	 Independent Writing Departments and Programs:
The Value of Collaboration in Attaining Visibility

Sponsored by the Independent Writing Departments and Programs
Association Standing Group
Panel explores collaboration led by independent writing units that leads to
increased visibility, creating change and increasing capacity.

E146
Chair: Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi
Speakers: Kathy Albertson, Georgia Southern University, Statesboro,
"First-Year Writing: The First Course in Everybody's Major"
Creed Greer, University of Florida, "The Growth of Writing in the
Disciplines in the University Curriculum"
Michael Pennell, University of Kentucky, "Writing (and Rhetoric) in the
'Real World': Professions in/with/of Writing"
12-Theory

H.05	 More Than Writing through It: Self-Care, Disability, and
Rhetorical Practice

Sponsored by the Disabilities Studies Standing Group
This panel approaches care from a rhetorical disability studies perspective
to challenge the normative nature of writing practices.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "More Than
Writing through It: Self-Care, Disability, and Rhetorical Practice"
Speakers: Elizabeth Brewer, Central Connecticut State University,
New Britain, "Boss Compositionists, Plate Twirlers, and Figurehead
Monarchs: Interdependent Care and the Hyper-Individualized WPA"
Allison Hitt, University of Central Arkansas, "'At Least I'm Not Insane':
Practicing Radical Self-Care in the Writing Classroom"
Amy Vidali, University of Colorado Denver, "Dear Disability: Humor,
Self-Care, and Recommendation Letters"
Respondent: Dale Katherine Ireland, The Graduate Center, CUNY

234

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 234

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

8-Language

H.06	 Language, Learning, and Literacy in the Classroom and
the Community

This panel explores the intersections of classrooms and communities for
multilingual students and English language learners.

B117
Chair: Jimmy Butts, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge
Speakers: Elvira Carrizal-Dukes, University of Texas at El Paso, "'In
Elementary I got third place in State, then I started struggling in
English and I started to dislike it': Language Use by Nonnative
Speakers of English in a Borderland University"
Isaac Ceniceros, The University of Texas at El Paso, "'In Elementary I got
third place in State, then I started struggling in English and I started
to dislike it': Language Use by Nonnative Speakers of English in a
Borderland University"
Jeffrey Moore, Bowling Green State University, "English Language
Learners and Community Building: Cultivating Change amidst
Hostility"
Ti Wu, University of California, Santa Barbara, "International Students'
Perceptions about Their Writing Experience in an American
University"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.07	 Voice Lessons: Formula, Creativity, and the Cultivation
of Authorial Identity across Multiple Levels of Writing
Instruction
Panelists explore tensions between formula and creativity in writing
instruction, and the cultivation of voice those tensions can yield.

Portland Ballroom 256
Speakers: James Clements, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles
James Condon, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
David Gooblar, University of Iowa, Iowa City
David Tomkins, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, "Writing
from Without: Embracing Externalization in the Advanced Writing
Classroom"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 235

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 235

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

12-Theory

H.08	 Cultivating Transnational Feminist Critique: The Rhetoric
of Human Rights under Scrutiny

This panel builds on transnational feminist rhetorical work to problematize
articulations of gender within human rights discourses.

B119
Speakers: Karen Carter, Arizona State University, "Collaborative Action
of Transnational Advocacy Networks (TAN) in the Philippines: The
Role of Non-Governmental Organizations in Building Transnational
Communications"
Lydia McDermott, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA, "Is Access to
Midwifery a Basic Human Right? The Rhetorical Ecology of Global
Midwifery"
Jessica Ouellette, University of Southern Maine, "Engendering an
Abjected Subject: Gender, Literacy, and Human Rights Rhetoric"
Lana Oweidat, Goucher College, "Power, Ethics, and the War on Terror:
Tensions between the Rhetoric of Saving and Cultural Relativism"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

H.09	 Fostering Spaces of Difference and Their Circulation
within Composition and Rhetoric Scholarship

Four monograph authors contemplate the impact of ongoing research and
engage the audience in discussions of how to work across difference.

D139
Chair: Tiffany Rousculp, Salt Lake Community College
Speakers: Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
Rhea Estelle Lathan, Florida State University
Lauren Rosenberg, New Mexico State University
Respondent: Tiffany Rousculp, Salt Lake Community College
13-Writing Programs

H.10	 Writing Studios as a Thirdspace: Mission Impossible?

Writing studios create thirdspaces in which multilingual language learners
in composition courses can develop transferrable writing skills.

D137
Speakers: Tait Bergstrom, University of Washington
Thuong Pham, University of Washington
Dan Zhu, University of Washington

236

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 236

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.11	 Bodies of Evidence: Cultivating Embodied Intelligence in
the Writing Classroom
Our goal is to consider how embodied pedagogies cultivate a sense
of community and challenge Western and male-centered systems of
knowledge.

B114
Chair: Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University, Tallahassee
Speakers: Sarah Blomeley, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, "'If I Said
You Had a Beautiful Body, Would You Hold It Against Me?': Delivery
and the Rhetoric of Country Music"
Amy Hodges Hamilton, Belmont University, Nashville, TN, "Nurturing
the Personal: Trauma and Personal Writing in the Composition
Classroom"
Meg Scott-Copses, College of Charleston, SC, "What a Feelin':
Flashdance in the Writing Classroom"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.12	 Sustainable Multilingual Pedagogies for L2 Students

This panel explores how instructors might avoid "lingual tourism" in the
translingual classroom.

A104
Chair: Sonia Sharmin, University of Georgia
Speakers: Lisa Blansett, University of Connecticut, Storrs, "Sustainable
Translingualism: Working Productively in Multiple Languages"
Erin Jensen, University of Utah, "Chinese International Students'
Experiences in First-Year Composition Courses: Cultivating More
Inclusive Classrooms"
Kate Mangelsdorf, University of Texas at El Paso, "Reworking the 'TA
Class': Preparing Writing Instructors for Multilingual Students"
Anna Panszczyk, Boston University, "Context in Genre: Helping Bridge
Course Content for the L1 and L2 Student in First-Year Writing"
Kimberly Shuckra-Gomez, Boston University, "Context in Genre:
Helping Bridge Course Content for the L1 and L2 Student in First-Year
Writing"
Lesley Yoder, Boston University, "Context in Genre: Helping Bridge
Course Content for the L1 and L2 Student in First-Year Writing"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 237

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 237

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

7-Institutional and Professional

H.13	 Change Agents in the Workplace: How MA Graduates
Transfer Rhetorical Knowledge into Action
We will show how our MA alumni use the transfer of rhetorical and
pedagogical knowledge as change agents in their workplaces.

C120
Chair: Nancy Mack, Wright State University
Speakers: Melissa Faulkner, Cedarville University, "One MA Alum's
Experiences in University and Community Contexts"
Nancy Mack, Wright State University, "What Our MA Alumni Use Every
Day: Transfer of Curricular Values"
David Seitz, Wright State University, "The Transfer of Rhetorical
Knowledge to Create Workplace Change"
3-Community, Civic & Public

H.14	 Cultivating Community Partnerships and Expanding
Understandings of Writing

We describe cultivating partnerships beyond university walls—a vital step
toward creating change in public narratives surrounding writing.

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Cathy Fleischer, Eastern Michigan University
Neal Lerner, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Charles Lesh, Auburn University
Respondent: Ann Blakeslee, Eastern Michigan University
13-Writing Programs

H.15	 Status in the Profession: Stories about WPA Work

Speakers share experiences that call attention to the need for increased
status of WPAs.

E148
Chair: Michelle Riedlinger, University of the Fraser Valley
Speakers: Joe Janangelo, Loyola University Chicago, "Reimaging Ideas
of WPA Readiness and Renewal"
Debbie Minter, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Reconceiving Reflection
in a Neoliberal Age"
James Seitz, University of Virginia, "Opportunity and Instability:
'Directing' a Writing Program through Curricular Change"
Chad Wickman, Auburn University, "Lost in Transition: Disciplinarity,
Local Knowledge, and Programmatic Change"
Margaret Willard-Traub, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Reconceiving
Reflection in a Neoliberal Age"

238

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 238

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

H.16	 "Exchange for Change": An Inside Look at the Creation of
a Community Writing Program across Prison Walls
This panel will discuss issues relevant to the creation of a prison writing
program, using the Exchange for Change program as an example.

E144
Chair: Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University
Speakers: Benjamin Bogart, University of Miami, "Persuasion on the
'Inside': What a Rhetoric and Writing Class Looks Like in Prison"
Wendy Hinshaw, Florida Atlantic University, "Getting the Word Out:
'Why I Write'"
Joshua Schriftman, University of Miami, "Indigenous Assessment
Strategies in a Prison Context: Designing Assessment from the Inside
Out"
Respondent: Kathie Klarreich, Exchange for Change
3-Community, Civic & Public

H.17	 Transportation in Community Organizations: New
Directions for Public Rhetoric

Three panelists provide perspectives at the intersection of transportation
studies and community engagement.

A109
Chair: Maria Novotny, Michigan State University
Speakers: Kathleen Coffey, Miami University, "Strategies for Engaging
Mobile Audiences with Community Organizations"
Jessica Estep, Georgia Gwinnett College, "Moving Public Rhetoric: How
Transportation Shapes Local Publics"
Mark Latta, Marian University, "The City Bus and the Narratives That
Move"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.18	 Video Games, Struggles, and the Process of Writing
Pedagogy

Video games in writing pedagogy classes have made us better readers,
writers, and tutors.

B115
Speakers: Conor Flanagan, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY
Chad Fust, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY
Roman Gernat, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY
Jamie Maher, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY
Roundtable Leader: Matthew Schultz, Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 239

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 239

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

H.19	 Stabilizing Equilibria: Fostering Writing Transfer through
Curricula, Assessment, and Collaboration

We examine the challenges and opportunities of maintaining a strong and
sustainable campus writing culture amidst institutional change.

E147
Speakers: Patrick Bahls, University of North Carolina at Asheville, "'But
Is It Sustainable?': Charting the Changeover from One Gen Ed Writing
Requirement to Another"
Brian Graves, University of North Carolina at Asheville, "Trees and
Forest: Developing a Sustainable Assessment of FYW for Transfer"
Jessica Pisano, University of North Carolina at Asheville, "Collaborating
for Transfer in FYW"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.20	 Re-seeing the Self: Multifaceted Aspects of Passing as a
Lens for First-Year Composition
Drawing from critical pedagogy, speakers will describe a curriculum for
first-year composition that centers on the theme of "passing."

A106
Speakers: Dodie Forrest, Yakima Valley College
Julie Swedin, Yakima Valley College
10-Research

H.21	 The Discourse of Self-Commentary: What We Learn
When Students Talk about Their Own Writing

Results of a CCCC-funded mixed-methods study of students' reflections
on drafts in progress and relationships to their success as writers.

E142
Speakers: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University
Chen Chen, North Carolina State University
Meridith Reed, North Carolina State University
7-Institutional and Professional

H.22	 Writing Programs and Libraries in Dialogue about Data
and Information Literacy
This panel offers insights into pedagogical possibilities built on shared
ways of knowing, writing, and library instruction.

B112

240

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 240

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Chair: Joan Mullin, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Speakers: Christine Masters, Francis Marion University, "What's the Big
Deal about Big Data? Cultivating Data Literacy in Writing Studies"
Matthew Moberly, California State University, Stanislaus, "The TRAIL
Project: Teaching Research and Information Literacy through
Interdisciplinary Curriculum Design"
Michael Neal, Florida State University, "Intellectual Property beyond
the Four Factor Test of Fair Use: Cultivating Conversations about
Multimodal Composition beyond the Classroom"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.23	 Visualizing Reading: Drawing, Adapting, Annotating

We claim the relationship between reading and composing merits renewed
attention and offer ideas for making that relationship visible.

B113
Chair: Carrie Hall, University of Pittsburgh
Speakers: Kerry Banazek, University of Pittsburgh, "Descriptive Practice
and Scaffolding Adaptation Exercises"
Carrie Hall, University of Pittsburgh, "Drawing and Metaphor"
Larry Hanley, San Francisco State University, "Digital Annotation and
'Creative Reading'"
12-Theory

H.24	 More Than a Feeling: Cultivating Affect Studies in
Composition and Rhetoric

This panel builds from recent conversations surrounding affect theory and
applies them to both research and pedagogy.

C121
Chair: Jason Luther, Syracuse University
Speakers: Phillip Bratta, Michigan State University
Steven Hammer, Saint Joseph's University
Respondent: Laurie Gries, University of Florida, Gainesville

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 241

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 241

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.25	 Inclusive ESL Pedagogies and Practices in First-Year
Composition

This panel considers how WPA outcomes impact populations including
ESL students, international students, and students who transition into
postsecondary college classrooms.

A103
Chair: Michael Baumann, University of Louisville
Speakers: Nawwaf Alhazmi, Purdue University, "ESL/International
Student Writers' Needs: The Missing Ingredient in the WPA Learning
Outcomes Statement"
Cynthia DeRoma, University of Connecticut, "Cultivating Connections
between ESL Instructors and FYC Programs"
Keely Mohon, Miami University, "Working with(in) the Contact Zone:
The Results of a Comparative Rhetoric-Based First-Year Composition
Course"
10-Research

H.26	 Beyond Representation: Cultivating Student Capacities
for Research, Reflection, and Self-Presentation

This panel presents three exemplars and engages questions of the potential
for student research to transform the field of composition.

E143
Chair: Emily Schnee, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY,
"Shifting the Research Paradigm: From Writing about to Writing with
Students"
Speakers: Annie Del Principe, Kingsborough Community College,
CUNY, "Cultivating Dissent: Creating Space for Competing Ideas
about Reading in College"
Rachel Ihara, Kingsborough Community College, CUNY, "Cultivating
Dissent: Creating Space for Competing Ideas about Reading in
College"
Lori Ungemah, Guttman Community College, CUNY, "Using Students'
Research to Teach Writing: A First-Year Course in Ethnographic
Research"
Respondent: Jessica Yood, The City University of New York
7-Institutional and Professional

H.27	 Writing Studies at the MLA: The Past and Future of
English and Writing Studies

Delineates past, present, and future of writing at the MLA and a
relationship to CCCC—timely, as a C's past chair will be MLA president.

E145
242

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 242

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Chair: Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette
Speakers: David Bleich, University of Rochester, "Territoriality and
Censorship in Writing Studies and Literature"
Anne Ellen Geller, St. John's University, "When NEH Funding Shaped the
State of Writing Studies in English Studies"
Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago, "The Past, Present, and
Future of the MLA Publications Program"
Melissa Ianetta, University of Delaware, "And Gladly Teach? Pedagogy
and the Histories of the Field(s) in College English and PMLA"
Carolyne King, University of Delaware, "And Gladly Teach? Pedagogy
and the Histories of the Field(s) in College English and PMLA"
Respondent: Anne Ruggles Gere, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
12-Theory

H.28	 Literacies, Identities, and Locations

Panelists examine issues of identity, power, and space that inform located
writing and literacy practices.

D134
Chair: Rebecca Gerdes-McClain, The University of Oklahoma, Norman
Speakers: Quanisha Charles, Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
"Cultivating Awareness and Creating Change through English
Language Teaching in South Korea"
Hannah Gerrard, Massey University, "Foundations and Flexibility:
Literacy and the University in Twenty-First-Century New Zealand"
Kaitlin Marks-Dubbs, "Pay No Attention to the Grrrl behind This
Movement: The Role of Dislocated Sponsorship in a DIY Campaign"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

H.29	 Composition as Place-Making: Critically Cultivating Place
This panel considers purposes and applications of critical place-making in
composition, from basic writing to teacher development and WID.

D133
Chair: Tom Fox, National Writing Project
Speakers: Cori Brewster, Eastern Oregon University, "Basic Writing as
Critical Place-Making Practice"
Heather Bruce, The University of Utah, "Revealing the Palimpsest:
Indians, Scientists, Places, and the Writing Marathon"
Kathryn Lambrecht, University of Nevada, Reno, "Shaping Place and
Space in Disciplinary Research"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 243

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 243

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Tribute Session
Tribute Session: Carolyn P. Handa

H.30	 Digital Fusion: A Celebration of Carolyn P. Handa and
Her Work
This roundtable builds on the works of Carolyn P. Handa and invites
dialogue on ways to cultivate new knowledge in and about digital
spaces.

Portland Ballroom 253
Chair: Pamela Takayoshi, Kent State University, OH
Speakers: Leah DiNatale, University of Alabama, "The Politics of
Blogging: Identity, Multimodal Composition, and Transformative
Politics"
Lacee Nisbett, University of Alabama, "Discourses in Digital
Communities: Observing Visual Rhetoric through Visual Culture"
Stephanie Don Chiemi Parker, University of Alabama, "The [Multi]
Model Minority: Digital and Visual Narratives of Japanese
American Incarceration"
Amanda Stevens, Miami University, OH, "Border Work: Reimagining
'Untraditional Frontiers'"
Collyn Warner, independent scholar, "#DigitalOrganizing: The Digital
Fusion of Rhetorical Theory and Community Organizing"

8-Language

H.31	 Haunted by (Linguistic) Difference: Perceptions of
Authority in the Classroom and Writing Center

Findings from studies in three distinct learning contexts explore language
diversity and perceptions of authority in writing instruction.

C124
Chair: Alexandria Lockett, Spelman College
Speakers: Gail Gibson, University of Michigan, "Writing It Right: The
Authority of Automation in a Developmental Writing Course"
Benjamin Keating, University of Michigan, "'Feedback Looks Different':
Ideologies of Difference in Peer Response Groups at an Elite,
Predominantly White Institution"
Molly Parsons, University of Michigan, "' . . . identity is like the word that
comes up a lot': How Undergraduate Writing Tutors Make Sense of
Issues of Identity and Difference in Practice and Theory"
Respondent: Alexandria Lockett, Spelman College

244

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 244

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.32	 Sharing Threshold Concepts as the Foundation for
Integrated Curricula, Collaborative Assessment, and
Learning Transfer across Library-Writing Partnerships

IRB-approved study exploring co-teaching of shared threshold concepts
for long-term transfer across writing programs and library sessions.

A105
Speakers: Cooper Day, Texas State University
Brittney Johnson, St. Edward's University
I. Moriah McCracken, St. Edward's University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.33	 Finding Rhetorical Power for Underrepresented Students
This panel explores how to value difference while cultivating the
rhetorical agencies in rural and underrepresented writers.

C125
Chair: Ann Rivera, Villa Maria College
Speakers: Amanda Berardi Tennant, Carnegie Mellon University, "Critical
Reflective Writing and the Stigmatized Self: A Study of Appalachian
College Writers"
Marisa Sandoval Lamb, Columbia Basin College, "Redefining the Rural:
Investigating Rural Writers' Literacies and Technology Use"
Cristina Toloza, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento, "Discourses
on Education Inclusion in College: Approaches and Tensions between
Conceptions and Practices"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

H.34	 Cultivating Rhetorical Understandings of Science in the
Classroom and Society

This panel considers rhetorical approaches to science for advanced science
writing classes and the professions.

D131
Speakers: Brenda Rinard, University of California, Davis, "Using Classic
Books in Biology to Teach the Rhetoric and History of Science"
Han Yu, Kansas State University, "Tree of Life in Popular Science
Communication"
Michael Zerbe, York College of Pennsylvania, "CRISPR and Rhetoric"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 245

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 245

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.35	 Multimodality and Social Justice: Re-composing the
First-Year Writing Classroom through Pedagogy,
Assessment, and Aurality

Our panel works to cultivate space for social justice through multimodality
in FYC in order to create change inside and outside of FYC.

B116
Chair: Mary Jo Reiff, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Speakers: Kristin DeMint Bailey, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
"Anti-Racist Pedagogies and Multimodality"
Casey Keel, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Revising First-Year
Composition's 'Modal Franca': Sounding Translingualism through
Applying Aurality"
Shane Wood, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Multimodality and
Multimodal Assessment for Social Justice"
Respondent: Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

H.36	 Intuition, Empathy, and Care in Medicine and Nonprofit
Organizations

Panelists consider questions of empathy, care, and intuition in medicine
and nonprofit organizations.

F152
Chair: William Banks, East Carolina University
Speakers: Elizabeth L. Angeli, Marquette University, "Ambience in
Medicine: The Senses, Intuition, and the Writing Process"
Ann Green, Saint Joseph's University, "Hospital Stories: Critical Teaching,
Reflective Writing, and Empathy"
Kathryn Perry, California State University, Los Angeles, "What Is
Hospitality? Understanding the Changing Literacy Narratives of Single
Mothers"
6-Information Technologies

H.37	 Decolonizing Game Play

Presenters use feminist theory and ethnic studies scholarship to reimagine
possible identities and relationships in online gaming.

B111
Chair: Christiane Boehr, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: M. Melissa Elston, Northwest Missouri State University,
"Games, Discourse, and Settler-Colonial Sexuality on the Digital
'Frontier'"

246

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 246

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Adam Ferguson, Tompkins-Cortland Community College, "Retheorizing
the OTP: Rhetorics of LGBTQIA+ Gaming"
Kathleen Irwin, Texas Woman's University, "Final Colonial Fantasies:
Expansionist Rhetoric in the Digital Era"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

H.38	 Cultivating the Land to Grow Rhetorical Practices:
Land-Based Pedagogies in Rhetoric and Composition
Cultivating land and growing rhetorical practices in the classroom.

D138
Speakers: Lisa King, University of Tennessee-Knoxville, "Avoiding
Rhetorical Monocropping: Cultivating a Diversity of Rhetorical
Makings in the Classroom"
Joyce Rain Anderson, Bridgewater State University, "Honoring Our
Ancestors by Cultivating Storytelling in and beyond the Classroom"
Gabriela Rios, The University of Oklahoma, "Cultivating Capacity in
Campesino's Gardens: Stories from a Service-Learning Course"
5-History

H.39	 Rethinking Genre Using 19th- and 20th-Century
Rhetorical Artifacts

Using genre theory, presenters examine rhetorical artifacts and explore the
evolution of particular genres.

B110
Chair: Alex Nielsen, Old Dominion University
Speakers: Alexander Landfair, New York University, "Reviving Paragraph
Theory: The Paragraph and the Writing Process"
Matthew Nunes, Miami University Middletown, "Origins and Evolution
of the Research Paper"
Sarah Polo, University of Kansas, "Cultivating Revisionist Historiography
via Rhetorical Genre Studies: Social Action and the 1900 Compositions
of Kate I. Hansen"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 247

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 247

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.40	 Reflective Assessments

This panel looks at student evaluations, image-based writing exercises,
and student uptake as reflective mechanisms for assessment.

C126
Chair: Jinrong Li, Georgia Southern University
Speakers: Charlotte Asmuth, University of Maine, "Constructs of
Reflection in the First-Year Composition Classroom"
Xyanthe Neider, Washington State University, "Exploring the Use of
Images as Prompts in Localized Large-Scale Writing Assessment"
Brian Ray, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "A Survey of SETs:
What Are Universities Asking on Their Student Evaluation of Teaching
Forms?"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.41	 The Backpack Project: Reinforcing Composition as a
Modalities-Responsive Discipline
The Backpack Project demos technology-driven, shared learning
experiences that reinforce composition as a modalities-responsive
discipline.

B118
Chair: Sharon Burns, University of Cincinnati Clermont College
Speakers: Katie Foran-Mulcahy, University of Cincinnati Clermont
College
Mike Mitchum, University of Cincinnati
Kyle Warren, University of Cincinnati Clermont College
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

H.42	 Cultivating (Creative) Composition on Campus: Digital
Stories as Research Narratives

This panel examines digital storytelling as a tool for creating multimodal
research narratives for circulation among a variety of audiences.

F150
Speakers: Ralph Beliveau, The University of Oklahoma, Norman
Rachel Jackson, The University of Oklahoma, Norman
Laurel Smith, The University of Oklahoma, Norman
Respondent: Michele Eodice, The University of Oklahoma, Norman

248

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 248

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

12-Theory

H.43	 Theoretical Revisions to the Field of Rhetoric and
Composition

These presenters offer up revisions to the ways we conceive of and discuss
traditional theories of rhetoric.

D132
Chair: Dagmar Scharold, University of Houston-Downtown
Speakers: Jai Hee Cho, California State University, Fullerton, "A
Holographic Diagram of the Rhetorical Situation with the Ontological,
the Epistemological, and the Rhetorical Spheres"
Shuv Raj Rana Bhat, University of Texas at El Paso, "Unthought-of
Connections: The Intersection of Critical Stylistics and Rhetoric and
Composition"
Ben Wetherbee, The University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma,
"Literacy and Rhetoric as Complementary Keywords"
2-Basic Writing

H.44	 Hearing Them Out: Understanding Student SelfPlacement in California and Beyond

The panel analyzes student self-placement into first-year writing classes at
different contexts and informs the literature on DSP.

C123
Chair: Aparna Sinha, California State University, Maritime Academy,
"Struggles and Successes of Implementing DSP"
Speakers: Cindy Baer, San Jose State University, "Hearing Them Out: A
Study in Student Self-Placement at a California State University"
Amy Heckathorn, California State University, Sacramento, "Designing,
Building, Assessing, Reflecting: Looking Back on the DSP Shift"
Kendon Kurzer, University of California, Davis, "Tapping (Self-)Expertise
in L2 Writing Placement: A Role for DSP?"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 249

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 249

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

5-History

H.45	 Cultivation of a Research Culture That Challenges
Hegemony at an HBCU

The panelists discuss the collegial cultivation of rhetorical research at an
HBCU.

D136
Speakers: Shannon Breeding, Huston-Tillotson University, "An
Ethnohistorical Study of Women's Rhetorical Voices in the Civil Rights
Movement"
Ryan Sharp, Huston-Tillotson University, "The Speaking Unspoken:
Contemporary Black American Persona Poetry, the Archive, and
Counterhistory"
Shawanda Stewart, Huston-Tillotson University, "Oral Histories and
Cultures of Pedagogy"
Brian Stone, California State Polytechnic University Pomona, "An
Ethnohistory of Writing Studies at Huston-Tillotson University"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

H.46	 Engaging Assignments, Engaging Writers

Drawing on a large qualitative study, we explore the relationship between
assignment design and students' engagement with writing.

A108
Speakers: Mary Soliday, San Francisco State University, "Metaphors for
Effective Design"
Linda Swanson, San Francisco State University, "Cultivating New Ways
to Design Assignments"
Jennifer Trainor, San Francisco State University, "Assignment Design and
Student Engagement"
10-Research

H.47	 Cultivating Writing Research via Corpus and
Computational Collaboration

Case studies of interdisciplinary research merging corpus linguistics,
rhetoric, and composition. Implications for collaboration.

E141
Chair: Bradley Dilger, Purdue University
Speakers: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University, "Closing
the Loop: Using Machine Learning Techniques to Generate Formative
Feedback from a Student Writing Corpus"
Lindsey Macdonald, Purdue University, "Using Corpora to Investigate the
Impacts of Assignment Variation on Student Approaches to Writing"

250

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 250

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

Ryan Omizo, University of Rhode Island, "Closing the Loop: Using
Machine Learning Techniques to Generate Formative Feedback from a
Student Writing Corpus"
Shelley Staples, University of Arizona, "Intersections of Corpus
Linguistics and Rhetoric and Composition"
12-Theory

H.48	 Cultivating and Complicating Reflexive Inquiry in the Age
of Neoliberalism
This roundtable explores importances and challenges of cultivating
reflexivity in today's efficiency-focused culture of higher education.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Zachary Beare, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Joy Barber, City College at Montana State Univesity Billings,
"The Costs of Slowing Down in the Age of Acceleration"
Zachary Beare, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Well, This Sucks . . . :
Negative Affect and the Work of Reflexive Inquiry"
Caitlin Carle, South Seattle College, "Dwelling in Hypocrisy: Reflexivity
and the Politics of First-Year Writing"
Kelly Myers, Boise State University, "Process vs. Product: The Movement
of Empathetic Understanding"
Jessica Rivera-Mueller, Utah State University, "Learning to Question
through Reflexive Inquiry: An Aim for Writing Teacher Education"
Respondent: Donna Qualley, Western Washington University, Bellingham
10-Research

H.49	 Seeing Things: Interrogating the Visual

The study of visual artifacts yields methodological insights that complicate
traditional ways of approaching rhetorical ecologies.

C122
Chair: Brian Hendrickson, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque
Speakers: Ana Krahmer, University of North Texas Libraries, "User
Experience of Access Points: Eye-Tracking, Metadata, and Usability
Testing"
Michael Madson, Medical University of South Carolina, "Greening the
Ubiquitous City: Songdo's Cultivation of Ironic Eco-Identity"
Jenna Vinson, University of Massachusetts Lowell, "Cultivating a
Collection of Journalistic Photographs for Analysis: The Nitty-Gritty of
Visual Rhetorical Research in Composition Studies"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 251

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 251

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

H.50	 "Cripping" the Writing Program: Disability and Policy
beyond the Ableist Script

Panel critically examines policy documents, specifically the syllabus, as a
means to move beyond the ableist script.

F151
Chair: Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Leslie Anglesey, University of Nevada, Reno, "'Cripping' the
Writing Classroom: Out of the Closet and Technology Policies in the
Writing Classroom"
Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, "'Cripping' the Writing
Classroom: Normalcy, Access, and Accessibility Statements"
Melissa Nicolas, University of Nevada, "'Cripping' the Writing Program:
Program Policy Statements and the 'Normal' Student"
Catherine Prendergast, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"'Cripping' the Writing Classroom: Ableism and the Attendance
Policy"
13-Writing Programs

H.51	 Writing Centers across the Globe

Speakers offer views of writing centers across the globe.

D140
Chair: Faye Spencer Maor, North Carolina A&T State University
Speakers: Brian Fallon, Fashion Institute of Technology, SUNY, "Writing
Centers and Political Migrants: Cultivating Pedagogy in Response to
Geopolitical Crisis"
Karyn Hollis, Villanova University, "Cultivating Connections in Cuba:
Educational Discourse and Service-Learning"
Erika I-Tremblay, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Development
of Writing Centers in Japan"
Karen Orr Vered, Flinders University of South Australia, "Writing at the
Centre: Mobilising Marginal Writing Practices and Support towards a
Whole of Institution Plan"

252

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 252

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 11:00 a.m.–12:15 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

H.52	 Outcomes and Frameworks: Cultivating Information
Literacy Capacity in Composition Classrooms

Using the revised ACRL Framework and WPA Outcomes, the panel
analyzes the collaborative nature of composition and information literacy.

A107
Speakers: Margaret Artman, Daemen College, "Toward a Theoretically
Informed Collaboration for Writing and Information Literacy"
Erica Frisicaro-Pawlowski, Daemen College, "Outlooks and Outcomes:
Framing Disciplinary Dispositions of Writing and Information
Literacy"
Julie Slaby, Daemen College, "Information Creation as Process—Teaching
the Process through the Research Portfolio: 'The Dream Team'"
Respondent: Robert Monge, Western Oregon University, "Cultivating
Collaboration: A Librarian's Perspective"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 253

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 253

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I Sessions: 12:30–1:45 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
I.01

Cultivating Social Justice Work in CCCC

Cultivating and Mobilizing Social Justice Work in
CCCC

This collaborative session engages participants in a discussion about
the organization's stance on and engagement in social justice work
nationally, which includes the ways the writing classroom is a space
for social justice. The facilitators will ask participants to help continue
thinking about a vision of what social justice means for CCCC as an
organization and how to mobilize this work for members. This session
is meant to be fully interactive and dialogue-based, producing ideas
and work that will shape the organization and what happens at 4C
2018 in Kansas City.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Damián Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Frankie Condon, University of Waterloo
Qwo-Li Driskill, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Asao Inoue, University of Washington, Tacoma
Stephanie Kerschbaum, University of Delaware
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Vershawn Young, University of Waterloo, Canada

I.02

Cultivating the Future of Online Writing Instruction

Cultivating Capacity, Creating Change: Assessing the
Future of Online Writing Instruction (OWI)

There are brilliant voices doing amazing things in their online writing
courses, and there is a need to encourage these voices to speak;
therefore, encouragement will be at the center of this Cultivate session.
This session will be made up of three concurrent mini-discussions
covering the following topics:
•	 Cultivating New Voices/New Lines of Inquiry in OWI Research
and Scholarship
•	 Sustaining Ourselves as OWI Professionals
•	 Cultivating OWI Connections
After participants engage in small-group discussions, they will
come together as a large group to share ideas. Participants will be
encouraged to discuss how to get involved in the subfield of OWI.

254

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 254

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Groups will record their main thoughts and action items from the smallgroup discussions, which will be collected, polished, and summarized
on the OWI Community Forum (http://www.owicommunity.org/forum).
Attendees should leave this session inspired to make a contribution
to the subfield of OWI and with an understanding of how OWI fits
into writing studies as a whole. Participants will be directed on how
they can seek out support and create or maintain OWI connections
among established scholars so that the participants' contributions are
shared, whether they are non-tenure-track faculty, do adjunct work at a
community college, or are just beginning their scholarly studies.

Portland Ballroom 251
Facilitators: Jessie Borgman, Texas Tech University
Casey McArdle, Michigan State University
Jennifer Stewart, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga

I.03

Cultivating a Culture of Mentoring

Where's the Mentor Here? Creating a Culture of
Mentoring in the New University and Beyond

Statistics show that up to 70% of the teaching workforce in higher
education is composed of non-tenure-track faculty and graduate student
instructors. In composition courses, the number of contingent faculty
is even higher (AAUP). As the university changes, it is crucial to have
trusted mentors who can guide graduate students through the rigors of
graduate school, first-time instructorships, scholarly writing projects,
and the job search. Mentors are also needed for non-tenure-track
faculty, who often suffer from lack of visibility and burnout, as well as
those who choose to pursue alt-ac positions as the university changes.
In our session, we reconsider ways to create a culture of mentoring
within and outside of our writing programs. How can we work
beyond the often hierarchical relationships of tenure-track faculty and
contingent faculty to create a culture of mentoring and egalitarianism?
How can the field of composition, rhetoric, and writing studies create
opportunities for mentoring that include the complex identities of
present and future compositionists? What happens if our mentoring
efforts are met with resistance?

Portland Ballroom 252
Facilitators: Susan Andersen, Utah State University
Lezlie Christensen Branum, Utah State University
Risa P. Gorelick, Defend & Publish: We Help You Write Now
Carrie Wastal, University of California, San Diego
Marion Wilson, University of California San Diego

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 255

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 255

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.04

13-Writing Programs

Responsive Program Design for the MA in Writing Studies
Sponsored by the Master's Degree Consortium of Writing Studies
Specialists Standing Group
Speakers examine MA Writing Studies programs purposely composed to
respond to rich local contexts rather than to the PhD.

C123
Chair: Rebecca Jackson, Texas State University
Speakers: Andy Buchenot, Indiana University–Purdue University,
Indianapolis, "Creating an Online Certificate in Teaching Writing: New
Technologies, New Audiences, New Challenges"
Kory Ching, University of California, Davis, "Composing a Composition
MA: An Ecology of Responsiveness"
Adam Ellwanger, University of Houston-Downtown, "The Freestanding
MA Program in Rhetoric and Composition: Ethnical Considerations"
Jason Schneider, DePaul University, "Preparing MA Students to Teach
Multilingual Writers"
Mia Zamora, Kean University Writing Project, "Strategies for Open
Discovery in MA Writing Studies Program Design"

I.05

3-Community, Civic & Public

Received Passages: Prison Histories—They Don't Speak
for Themselves

Sponsored by the Teaching in Prison: Pedagogy, Research and Literacies
Collective Standing Group
This sponsored panel argues for the curation of histories that lead to more
equitable representations of incarcerated people.

C124
Chair: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University
Speakers: Cory Holding, University of Pittsburgh, "Securing Security in
the University: Curating the History (and Future) of a College-in-Prison
Program"
Michele McCormack, Chemeketa Community College, "Communicating
the Inside Experience to an Outside World"
Laura Rogers, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, NY,
"New Approaches to Curating Prison Archival Materials: Prison
Teachers, Creative Approaches"
Respondent: Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins

256

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 256

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.06

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Design Thinking Approaches in the Writing Classroom

Faculty panel will connect design thinking, agile projects management
(Scrum), and professional, technical, and first-year writing studies.

B113
Speakers: Trey Conner, University of South Florida St. Petersburg
Margaret Debelius, Georgetown University, Washington, DC
Travis DuBose, Rutgers University-Camden
Joseph Moses, University of Minnesota
Jason Tham, University of Minnesota
Roundtable Leader: Rebecca Pope-Ruark, Elon University, "Using Scrum
to Guide Complex Projects in Professional Writing Courses"

I.07

6-Information Technologies

Linguistic Scaffolding as Intelligent Context: Teaching
Academic Genres via Software-Mediated Corpora

Research to evaluate Corpus-Assisted Predictive Editor (CAPE) is
described, evaluating its usefulness for teaching genre in the disciplines.

D131
Chair: Joseph Williams, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: David Fisher, Emory University, "CAPE as Thinking Context:
Studying Process and Product"
James Lu, Emory University, "Hyperwriting with CAPE"
Joonna Trapp, Emory University, "A Time of Change Continued—Digital
WAC/WID"

I.08

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Sounds of Science

This panel examines science journalism, infographics, and the science of
learning as relevant to writing classrooms.

D132
Chair: Jacob Craig, College of Charleston
Speakers: Katie Arosteguy, University Writing Program, University of
California, Davis, "Using Infographics to Tell Stories in the Science
Writing Classroom"
Rebecca Jones, University of Tennessee, Chattanooga, "The Power of
Science Journalism: A Model for Ethical Research in Writing Courses"
Scott Stevens, University of Redlands, "Student Learning and the Science
of Change"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 257

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 257

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.09

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

She Blinded Me with Science (Pedagogy)

This panel examines strategies for writing instruction in STEM settings.

C126
Chair: Michael Healy, Florida State University
Speakers: Nancy Barr, Michigan Technological University, "Reflection/
Deflection: Challenges of Incorporating Reflexive Writing into a
Mechanical Engineering Program"
Heather Falconer, Northeastern University, "Breaking the 'Code' of
Science: A Culturally Responsive Approach to Teaching Science
Writing"
Laura McGrath, Kennesaw State University, "Cultivating Critical
Approaches to STEM Rhetorics"

I.10

10-Research

Slouching toward Sustainability: Mixed-Methods
Approaches to Sustainable and Valid Writing Program
Assessment

We suggest sustainable methods for both large-scale quantitative
assessment of student writing and rich qualitative analysis of features.

Portland Ballroom 253
Speakers: Ellen Barton, Wayne State University
Jared Grogan, Wayne State University
Jeff Pruchnic, Wayne State University
Christopher Susak, Wayne State University

I.11

13-Writing Programs

Linking Assessment to Faculty Development and
WAC/WID: How One Change Leads to Another

For WPAs, institutional assessment creates faculty development
opportunities that can benefit WAC/WID. We describe challenges and
successes.

F150
Chair: Stephen Wilhoit, University of Dayton
Speakers: John Bean, Seattle University, "How Writing-Based Assessment
Across the Disciplines Promotes Faculty Development as Well as
Evidence-Based Pedagogical Research"
Carol Rutz, Carleton College, "WAC/WID Challenges in Small Schools"
Stephen Wilhoit, University of Dayton, "WID Infiltrates Gen Ed: The Role
of Assessment and Faculty Development"

258

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 258

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.12

4-Creative Writing

Cultivating Undergraduate Creative Writing Education

This panel highlights the contributions of undergraduate creative writing
and journals.

A109
Chair: Elizabeth Barnes, Boise State University
Speakers: Shea Haskell, Utah Valley University, "Cultivating Our
Garden"
Phil Sandick, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, "'Living
Decorously Instead of Going Out': Following the Historical Traces of
Flannery O'Connor's Early Defense of the Program Era"
W. Kurt Stavenhagen, Syracuse University, "Coaching the Publication of
an Undergraduate Online Magazine"
Joseph Zeppetello, Marist College, "The Capping Portfolio; Cultivating a
Collection"

I.13

13-Writing Programs

Community Engagement and Service-Learning

This panel explores community engagement in writing programs and
writing centers.

E148
Chair: Lauren Springer, Mt. San Jacinto College
Speakers: Nancy Barron, Northern Arizona University, "Creating Cultural
Change: Establishing Culturally Significant Sites for Writing Across the
Disciplines"
Laurie Britt-Smith, College of the Holy Cross, "Civic Engagement and
WAC/WID: Using Disciplinary Differences to Cultivate Civic Literacy
in a First-Year Experience Program"
Sarah Finn, Northeastern University, "Broadening the Scope of ServiceLearning: Student Civic Engagement with Campus Activist Groups"
Sibylle Gruber, Northern Arizona University, "Creating Cultural Change:
Establishing Culturally Significant Sites for Writing Across the
Disciplines"
Aimee Krall-Lanoue, Concordia University Chicago, "'Concerted
Cultivation' and the Writing Center: Social Class and the Locations of
Need"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 259

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 259

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.14

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Coming to Our Senses: Enabling Multiple Sensory
Pathways in Active Learning Methods

Active learning improves student reading, writing, and critical thinking.
Using multisensory instruction enables latent potential.

A106
Chair: William Hamilton, Neumann University
Speakers: William Hamilton, Neumann University, "Activating Student
Ownership of Writing and Voice via Biography"
Whitney Impellizeri, Neumann University, "Fostering Active Learning for
the Millennial Student Using the Flipped Classroom Model"
Janelle Ketrick-Gillespie, Neumann University, "Cultivating Independent
Learners through Multisensory Active Learning and Authentic
Assignments"

I.15

3-Community, Civic & Public

Building Engaging Partnerships: Service-Learning from
Three Perspectives

This panel explores creating sustainable service-learning partnerships from
three perspectives: administrator, professor, and student.

E147
Speakers: Kyle Cataldo, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY
Lynn Donahue, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY
Wendi Sierra, St. John Fisher College, Rochester, NY

I.16

2-Basic Writing

Research-Based Practices for Teaching Underprepared
Readers in Writing Courses

This session describes research-based practices and teaching strategies for
incorporating reading instruction into writing courses.

C121
Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin–Marathon County
Speakers: Erin Ellison, University of Wisconsin–Rock County, "Teaching
Reading in Corequisite Writing Support Courses"
Joanne Giordano, University of Wisconsin Colleges, "Designing Writing
Assignments to Support Critical Reading"
Gillian Van Treese, University of Wisconsin–Waukesha, "Teaching
Reading Comprehension Strategies in Writing Courses"

260

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 260

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.17

9-Professional and Technical Writing

Tracking and Tracing Effective Pedagogies in Technical
Communication

Panelists explore various pedagogical strategies that they deem helpful to
technical communication instructors.

B117
Chair: William Hart-Davidson, Michigan State University
Speakers: Susan Conrad, Portland State University, "Improving Writing
Instruction through Collaboration of Writing Specialists, Engineering
Faculty, and Engineering Practitioners"
Alexandria DeGrauw, The University of Utah, "Tracking Student
Responses to Hot Topics in Science"
Elizabeth Hildinger, University of Michigan, "Is Instructor Feedback
Most Effective for Helping First-Year Students Make the Transition to
Professional Writing?"
Maureen Mathison, The University of Utah, "Tracking Student Responses
to Hot Topics in Science"
Charlyne Sarmiento, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Tracing
Writing Development in the Lab: Understanding the Role of Writing in
Undergraduate Students' Enculturation into the Sciences"
Elane Wisniewski, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Is Instructor
Feedback Most Effective for Helping First-Year Students Make the
Transition to Professional Writing?"

I.18

9-Professional and Technical Writing

From STEM to STEAM: Analyzing Medical Rhetoric and
Personal Narrative in Professional Writing

This panel analyzes the movement toward narrative in medical discourse
and the incorporation of the humanities in the WID classroom.

E141
Speakers: Melissa Bender, University of California, Davis, "Seeking
Connections: The Power and Risk of Metaphor in Medical Case
Studies"
Amy Clarke, University of California, Davis, "The Chief Concern:
Finding the Narrative Core in Personal Statements"
Larry Greer, University of California, Davis, "The Chief Concern: Finding
the Narrative Core in Personal Statements"
Heather Milton, University of California, Davis, "Narrative Medicine:
Issues of Agency and Subjectivity in Incorporating Narrative in
Professional Writing Classes"
Karma Waltonen, University of California, Davis, "Seeking Connections:
The Power and Risk of Metaphor in Medical Case Studies"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 261

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 261

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.19

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Reaffirming Access: Strategies for Rhetorical and
Linguistic Pedagogy

Presenters discuss learners as decisions makers, supporting first-generation
students, attitudes, and rhetorical templates in FYC.

A103
Chair: Karen Wink, US Coast Guard Academy
Speakers: Jennifer Haigh, Cornell College, "What I Wish My Professors
Knew: An Examination of the Challenges First-Generation Students
Face and How They May Affect the Writing Classroom"
Catherine Journeaux, Zayed University, "The Learner as Decision Maker:
Using Online Resources to Promote Self-Determination in the Writing
Classroom"
Carrie Kilfoil, University of Indianapolis, "The 'Postmonolingual
Condition' and the Rhetoric and Composition PhD: Language,
Ideology, and Difference in a Doctoral Program"
Don Kraemer, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, "Does It
Matter Whether They Say What They Say/I Say Says They Do?"

I.20

12-Theory

Feminist Rhetoric in Action

The presentations in this session offer feminist projects that blur the
distinction between academia and activism.

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Elizabeth Miller, University of Missouri–Saint Louis,
"Protofeminism, the Woman Question, and the Public Sphere(s)"
Johnathan Smilges, Pennsylvania State University, "Inviting All
Womanism(s)"
Lauren Terbrock, Saint Louis University, "Erasing the Dividing Line"

I.21

10-Research

Reframing Writing Assessment

Panelists present research results that encourage rethinking of accepted
principles of student writing assessment.

C122
Chair: Richard Severe, Valparaiso University

262

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 262

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Speakers: Catherine DeLazzero, Teachers College, Columbia University,
"Designing Writing Assessment Research to Improve Policy and
Practice: An Approach for Collecting and Analyzing Consequential
Validity Evidence"
Bridget Fullerton, University of Rhode Island, "Listening to Our Students:
How Emergent Learning Outcomes Can Enrich Electronic Portfolio
Assessment"
Dayna Goldstein, Texas A&M–Texarkana, "The Category Formerly
Known as Race in Writing Assessment"
Mathew Gomes, Michigan State University, "The Places of Students in
Writing Program Assessment Research"

I.22

5-History

Framing Rhetorical Failure, Cultivating Feminist
Engagement

Contributing to feminist rhetorical historiography efforts, this panel
revisits women's rhetorical failures in three professional contexts.

Portland Ballroom 256
Speakers: Jason Barrett-Fox, Arkansas State University, "Critically
Panned: Revisiting Early Hollywood Scenarist Anita Loos's Filmic
Failure"
Jean Bessette, University of Vermont, "Statistically Queer: Rhetorical
Failure in Early Twentieth-Century Studies of Sexuality"
Sarah Hallenbeck, University of North Carolina Wilmington, "Patently
Excluded: Nineteenth-Century Inventor Carrie Everson's Rhetorical
Failures in the American West"

I.23

12-Theory

Seeing and Understanding Our World: Visual, Spatial, and
Material Rhetorics
Composing stories/understanding through block printing, photos of urban
development, geocaching, and photos of nuclear tests.

B119
Chair: Gregory Wilson, Texas Tech University, "Coming to Understand
the Bomb through Visual-Material Networks"
Speakers: Timothy Elliott, Texas Tech
Rachel Wolford, Texas Tech University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 263

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 263

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.24

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Yikkety Yak: Do Talk Back!

This panel looks at Yik Yak and student grade complaints as opportunities
for positive student engagement in an otherwise judgmental medium.

C125
Chair: Jessica Thomsen, Florida State University
Speakers: Caddie Alford, Indiana University, Bloomington, "Enacting
Dérive: Yik Yak in the Argumentative Writing Classroom"
Heather Hill, University of Maryland University College, "Cultivating
Resilience to Counter Entitlement: An Investigation of the Causes and
Solutions for Student Grade Complaints"
Kristy Kelly, Oregon State University, "Local Anonymity: Hybrid
Literacies and Yik Yak as an Inventive Site"

I.25

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Changing Perspectives on Multimodal Composition
Pedagogies: Utilizing (Inter)Modalities, Art, and
Technology to Teach Transferable Rhetorical and
Technical Competence

This panel presents different digital composition pedagogies with an eye
toward teaching students transferable rhetorical/technical skills.

B115
Chair: Megan Keaton, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Teach
a Student to Fish: Building a Framework to Support Students'
Technological Learning"
Speakers: Matthew Sansbury, Georgia State University, "Cultivating
Change by Listening to Our Past: Transferring Interdependent
Modalities of Composition and Rhetoric from the Enlightenment for
21st-Century Pedagogies"
Lelania Watkins, Georgia State University, "Composing Forward and
Backward: Utilizing Multimodality and Art to Reshape Composition
Pedagogy"

I.26

7-Institutional and Professional

Collaborating across Statewide University Writing
Programs: Sharing Best Practices

University of California writing programs collect and share best practices
among their writing programs.

D138
Chair: Philip Longo, University of California, Santa Cruz

264

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 264

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Speakers: Derede Arthur, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Can We
Talk? Building Communication between Writing Programs/Building
Leaders from the Bottom Up"
Farnaz Fatemi, University of California, Santa Cruz, "Surveying Best
Practices in First-Year Experience Writing Courses"
Jonathan Keeperman, University of California, Irvine, "Developing
the Infrastructure to Support Diversity: Composition and the UC
Experiment in International Education"
Roxi Power, University of California, Santa Cruz, "From Precarity to
Necessity: UC Lecturers' Role in Building Their Writing Programs"

I.27

6-Information Technologies

I'd Like to Add You to My Professional Network: Beyond
the Obvious in Social Media Research
Researching the potentials and risks of social media to cultivate
knowledge and connections in educational and professional contexts.

A107
Chair: Brandy Dieterle, University of Central Florida
Speakers: Amber Buck, University of Alabama
Randall Monty, University of Texas Rio Grande Valley
Ehren Pflugfelder, Oregon State University
Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida

I.28

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Considering Language in Use: Code-Switching and
ESL Praxis

This panel considers the challenges and opportunities facing English
language learners and the possibilities of code-switching in the classroom.

F152
Chair: Sidouane Patcha Lum, University of Texas at El Paso
Speakers: Kevin Kato, Arizona State University, "Composition in an Age
of Globalization: Cultivating Insights from Second Language Studies"
Kaitlyn Stunkard, University of Missouri–Kansas City, "Code-Switching,
Education, and the Culture of Power"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 265

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 265

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.29

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Contemplating Disciplinary Boundaries: Interdisciplinarity
and Contemplative Practice
Panelists will discuss disciplinary connections between cognition,
neuroscience, contemplative practice, and composition studies.

E142
Speakers: Kate Chaterdon, Loyola University Maryland
Yasmín Navarrete, Université Grenoble Alpes
Erin Schaefer, Michigan State University

I.30

3-Community, Civic & Public

Primary Research, Community Literacy, and ServiceLearning: Implementing a Writing-Across-the-Community
Paradigm in First-Year Composition and Beyond
Models for engaging FYC students in primary research are presented in
order to advance a Writing Across Communities paradigm.

E146
Chair: Elias Dominguez Barajas, University of Arkansas, "Advancing a
Writing-Across-the-Community Paradigm in the Teaching of Writing"
Speakers: Grant J. Bain, University of Arkansas, "Cultivating Curiosity:
Primary Research, Ethnography, and Community Engagement in FirstYear Composition Course Design"
Sean Connors, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Engaging Students
in 'Place-Making' through Community Inquiry"
Elias Dominguez Barajas, University of Arkansas, "The Northwest
Arkansas Latino Literacy Project—Writing and Reading outside of
School"
Julia Paganelli, University of Arkansas, "Biliteracy and Service-Learning:
Envisioning and Mapping Community"

I.31

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Cultivating Students' Agency: Confronting Trauma
through First-Year Writing

Cultivating voices of students who have experienced the trauma of child
abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, racism, and xenophobia.

Portland Ballroom 258
Speakers: Michele Dunnum, Mott Community College
Sondra Gates, Kirkwood Community College
Colleen O'Brien, University of South Carolina Upstate
Monika Shehi, University of South Carolina Upstate

266

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 266

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.32

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Cultivating Writerly Identities and Communities Across
the Curriculum: Dissertation-Writing Retreats as
Scholarly Intervention
This interactive panel presents critical inquiry and models for action to
empower graduate student writers across disciplines.

E143
Speakers: Kathleen Baldwin, Georgia Southern University
Liane Malinowski, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Lisha Storey, University of Massachusetts Amherst

I.33

12-Theory

Sustaining and Cultivating Change: Locating the Sites
and Stories for Social Justice Pedagogies

This panel provides more options for creating and sustaining social justice
pedagogical spaces in rhetoric and composition.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Pauline Baird, Bowling Green State University, "'Wah De Story
Seh?': Caribbean Village Women's Rhetoric"
Speakers: Danielle Donelson, Bowling Green State University, "Using
Decoloniality and World Englishes to Reveal Complicated EnglishSpeaker Identities within an Indonesian ESOL Classroom"
Shirley E. Faulkner-Springfield, Virginia State University, "Hearing +
Listening = Believing: Espousing Social Justice through Voicing"
Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, "Making
Decolonial Knowledge Visible and Viable within Higher Education"

I.34

12-Theory

Theorizing Trauma, Composing Hate

This panel considers the rhetorics of—and responses to—trauma and hate
in varied contexts.

D140
Chair: Cynthia Bair Van Dam, American University, Washington, DC
Speakers: Mais Al-Khateeb, New Mexico State University, Las
Cruces, "Transnational Rhetorics, Touches, and New Subjectivities:
Responding to the Refugees' Crisis after the Paris Attacks"
Stephanie Larson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Writing as Public
Healing: Sensation, Retribution, and Sexual Assault Prosecution"
Berto Reyes, University of Arizona, "Popularizing Hate: The Composition
Practices of Hate Groups in Video Games"
Valerie Vancza, Suffolk University, "Too Close to Home: Trauma Theory
and Research Inquiry on Sandy Hook"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 267

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 267

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.35

3-Community, Civic & Public

Cultivating Participatory Community Writing

Approaches to encouraging participation in community engagement and
service-learning projects.

A104
Chair: Jay Petrillo, Norwich University
Speakers: Steven Accardi, College of DuPage, "The Effects of a
Community Engagement Project on University Students, Community
Participants, and the Writing Itself"
Megan Hartline, University of Louisville, "Cultivating Architectures of
Participation for Community Writing"
Bret Keeling, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Care in/of First-Year
Writing: The 'Politics of Recognition and Belonging'"
Meg McGuire, University of Delaware, Newark, "Changing the
Landscape of Service-Learning: Approaches to Increased Student
Engagement with Assignments Outside the Classroom"

I.36

7-Institutional and Professional

Transforming Gendered Service and Leadership in
Writing Programs: Accountability and Institutional
Change

This panel identifies the challenges of gendered service and offers
strategies for transformation at different types of institutions.

D135
Speakers: Jennifer Heinert, University of Wisconsin–Waukesha County,
"Labor, Missions, and Values: Institutional Misalignment and the
Gendered Service Paradox"
Michelle Payne, Boise State University, "On Making a 'Bad Career
Choice': Administration, Emotive Dissonance, and Institutional
Change"
Cassandra Phillips, University of Wisconsin-Waukesha, "Labor, Missions,
and Values: Institutional Misalignment and the Gendered Service
Paradox"
Eileen Schell, Syracuse University, "A Dirty Job That Somebody Has to
Do: Gendered Service and the Role of Departmental Chair"

I.37

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Recultivating Composition in a Sophomore-Level
Classroom: Assemblage, Circulation, and ePortfolios

This panel shares strategies to dispel student misconceptions of originality,
audience, and (non)academic writing in a second-year course.

A105

268

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 268

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Speakers: Amy Cicchino, Florida State University, "Circulating
Composition beyond the Classroom"
Rachel Efstathion, Florida State University, "ePortfolios as Sites for
Student Curation of Everyday Writing"
Christina Giarrusso, Florida State University, "Assembling a New Kind of
Originality"
Respondent: Deborah Coxwell-Teague, Florida State University

I.38

6-Information Technologies

Students Inhabiting Digital Learning Environments

Panelists examine how students adapt to digital learning technologies and
apply this to writing online.

B111
Chair: Lauren Rosenberg, New Mexico State University
Speakers: Anthony Atkins, University of North Carolina Wilmington,
"Metaphors, Analogies, and the Digital: Mental Models Students Use to
Understand and Explain Digital Tools and Environments"
Michael Babcock, Central Virginia Community College, "Using Text
Analytics as a Revision Heuristic in the College Composition
Classroom"
Michael Larkin, University of California, Berkeley, "Cultivating a Digital
Reading Mindset in First-Year Composition"
Colleen Reilly, University of North Carolina Wilmington, "Metaphors,
Analogies, and the Digital: Mental Models Students Use to Understand
and Explain Digital Tools and Environments"
Tanya Tercero, University of Arizona, "Students' Perceptions of a FirstYear Online Writing Course for English Language Learners"

I.39

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Cultivating Student Invention: Challenging the Narratives
of Digital Collaboration, Student Research, and
Metacognitive Practices

An interactive and participatory knowledge-building experience looking at
cognition in digital collaboration, student research, and writing.

B118
Speakers: Patricia Medved, St. John's University, "The Changing
Conversation of Research as Invention"
Michael Reich, St. John's University, "Changing Spaces for Invention in
Face-to-Face and Digital Student Writing Environments"
Jason Wirtz, Hunter College, "Cultivating an Awareness of Nonconscious
Invention in the Writing Process"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 269

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 269

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.40

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Locating Rhetorics of Oppression: Engaging Politics of
Place
How varying intersectional frameworks of analysis can augment our
abilities to reconceive place and place-based practices.

D139
Chair: Everardo Cuevas, Michigan State University
Speakers: Timothy Amidon, Colorado State University, "Secret Spots and
Surf Cultures: Localism, Nomoi, and Appropriative Disclosure"
Everardo Cuevas, Michigan State University, "Coloniality in Tandem: Old
Town Lansing and the Rhetorics of Urban Renewal"
Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University, "'Look Away! Dixie
Land!': The Confederate Flag as Icon of American Rurality"
Donnie Sackey, Wayne State University, "Research Notes from Flint,
Michigan"

I.41

13-Writing Programs

Offering Models of Assessment That Are Holistic
Representations of Writers

To demonstrate efficacy, assessment often focuses on one aspect of
writers. We offer three holistic assessment models in writing centers.

D136
Speakers: Pamela Bromley, Pomona College
Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound
Andrea Scott, Pitzer College

I.42

8-Language

Cultivating Critical Awareness of Language Usage as a
Tool for Creating a Translingual Community

We will focus on ways to help students build translingual dispositions that
facilitate rhetorical flexibility in their communication.

D137
Chair: Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Leighann Dicks, University of Kansas, "Translingual-ish:
Black-ish and AAVE on TV and in Class"
Dion Simmons, University of Kansas
Wen Xin, University of Kansas

270

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 270

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.43

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Cultivating Alternative Pathways to Writing Assessment
Our panel will offer both a theoretical analysis of and resistance to
mandated writing rubrics.

B116
Chair: Chen Chen, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Katelyn Egloff, Towson University, "#RBRC: Imagining
Rubric as a Four-Letter Word"
Casey Lichtman, Towson University, "Not Wired for Rubrics: An
Exploration of Institutional Values and Silencing"
June Locco, Community College of Baltimore County, "Student Writing
Clubs—A Break from the Rubric"
Deanna Murphy, Towson University, "Transforming Rubric Terminology:
Re/Visioning Rubrics as a Way to Educate the Educators"

I.44

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Doing What It Takes: Toward Meaningful Cultivation of
Learning Spaces
Panelists challenge narratives about African American women,
repositioning agency in critical pedagogies.

C120
Chair: Jessica R. Edwards, University of Delaware
Speakers: Jessica R. Edwards, University of Delaware, "African American
Women in the Media: Using Writing to Cultivate Agency"
Michelle Grue, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Cultivating
Empowerment by Changing the Narrative of Black Women in
Academia"
ReAnna Roby, The University of Texas at San Antonio, "A StudentCentered Expansion of Critical Pedagogy through Critical Race
Feminism and Engaged Pedagogy"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 271

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 271

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.45

8-Language

Including Multilingualism in the Cultivation of Teachers,
Administration, and Programs
Using multilingual approaches in programmatic directives and teaching
outcomes helps various student populations.

B112
Chair: Sarah Perrault, University of California, Davis
Speakers: Tawnya Lubbes, Eastern Oregon University, "Cultivating
Language Identities through a Case Study Approach in TESOL
Preparation Programs"
Jolivette Mecenas, University of La Verne, "Cultivating Campus
Collaborations to Support L2 and Language Minority Writers in WAC/
WID Courses"
Jennifer Slinkard, University of Arizona, "Cultivating Successful CrossCultural Composition Classrooms"

I.46

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Translingualism, Transmodality, and Tangled Disciplinary
Roots: Growing through Our Theories
This panel addresses the complicated cross-disciplinary roots, current
disjunctures, and future promises of translingualism.

D133
Chair: Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, NY
Speakers: Michelle Kaczmarek, The Pennsylvania State University, State
College, "Researching Translingually: Beyond Linguistic Knowledge"
Rachael Shapiro, Rowan University, "Translingual and Transmodal
Synergies and Discord"
Missy Watson, The City College of New York, CUNY, "The 'ism' in
Translingualism: Exploring Etymologies"

I.47

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

The Role of Writing Criteria in Transparency, Agency,
and Community-Building in the Disciplinary Writing
Classroom

Examines the use of partial-trait criteria and peer-based holistic scoring in
writing courses linked to lecture courses in two disciplines.

A108
Chair: Megan Callow, University of Washington, "Assessing Assessment:
Considerations for Research on Criteria and Scoring"

272

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 272

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

Speakers: Julie Dykema, University of Washington, "Students Norming
Student Papers: A Step toward Peer Review and Self-Assessment"
Carrie Matthews, University of Washington, Seattle, "Writing and
Learning in a Discipline through Peer-Based Holistic Scoring: Context
and Results"

I.48

12-Theory

Objects, Technology, and Pedagogy in Materialism and
New Materialism

These panelists engage with materiality to analyze various historical and
material exigencies inside and outside of the classroom.

D134
Chair: Lisa Abney, Northwestern State University
Speakers: Summer Dickinson, Indiana University of Pennsylvania,
"Narrating Objects: Unpacking Sensational Narratocracy in FYW
Narratives"
Edward Hahn, University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire, "Exile in the Gum
Aisle: The Conceptual Politics of New Materialism in Writing Studies"
Caitlin Pierson, University of Central Florida, "The Material-Rhetorical
Situation: How Easter Dresses Respond to Exigencies"

I.49

10-Research

Creating a Transferable Sense of a Writing Self: Findings
from a Longitudinal Study of WAW
A longitudinal study of learning transfer from writing-about-writing
courses shows transfer as a function of a writer's sense of self.

F151
Chair: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
Speakers: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Transfer or
Transformation? Taking New Selves to New Sites of Writing"
Kim Hoover, University of Pittsburgh, "Kinds of Consciousness: Affect,
Metacognition, and Cosmic Minds?"
Miles Nolte, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Watch Out for That
Exigence: What Military and Commercial Vessel Training Might
Demonstrate about Facilitating Student Engagement in FYC"
Mark Schlenz, Montana State University, Bozeman, "Actualizing Selves
in Universes of Discourse: Creativity, Identity, and Exigence in
Metacognitive Transfer"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 273

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 273

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 12:30–1:45 p.m.

I.50

10-Research

Getting Our Hands Dirty: The Case for Conducting
Collaborative Archival Research with Undergraduates

Speakers report on the feasibility and benefits of collaborative archival
research practices for undergraduates in composition courses.

E144
Speakers: Sarah Franco, University of New Hampshire
Molly Tetreault, University of New Hampshire
Patty Wilde, Washington State University, Tri-Cities Campus, Richland,
WA

I.51

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Multimodal Pedagogies: Digital Storytelling, Map Essays,
and Technology as Text
Innovative approaches to technology and writing that encourage critical
thinking, spatial analysis, visual literacy, and creativity.

B114
Speakers: Keri Behre, Marylhurst University, "Technology as Text:
Preventing Tech Burnout for Online Students"
Perrin Kerns, Marylhurst University, "Digital Storytelling in the Writing
Classroom: Word, Image, Tune"
Meg Roland, Marylhurst University, "Wayfinding in the Spatial
Humanities: Poetic Cartographies, Maps, and Writing"

I.52

13-Writing Programs

Assess This! Cultivating Cultural Change in the Face of
Resistance

This panel will speak to the difficulties of combining writing assessment
with program redesign at a large, multicampus community college.

F149
Speakers: Allison Gross, Portland Community College
Blake Hausman, Portland Community College
Nick Hengen Fox, Portland Community College
Jessica Johnson, Portland Community College
Caroline Le Guin, Portland Community College
Megan Savage, Portland Community College
Elizabeth Smith, Portland Community College
George Zamzow, Portland Community College

274

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 274

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J Sessions: 2:00–3:15 p.m.
Poster Sessions
Portland Ballroom Lobby
Pedagogical Influence on Writer Self-Efficacy: A Case Study of Basic
Writing Classes
Basic writing students need to develop self-efficacy as academic writers. This
study explores how pedagogy relates to this development.
Bridget Kriner, Cleveland State University
Regional Campus Student Populations and ITV Instruction: Barriers to
the Instructor/Student Relationship
Considers barriers to instructor/student relationships with underserved student
populations in a regional campus ITV environment.
Misty Chisum, Southeast Missouri State University
Jennifer Gadberry, Southeast Missouri State University
Kathryn Ingram-Wilson, Southeast Missouri State University
Toward a Knowledge Worker Framework of Social Media: Evaluating
Twitter Assignments in the Classroom
This poster describes a rubric for assessing social media assignments that
enable a knowledge worker model of technical communication.
Laura Roberts, North Carolina State University
Level Ten Teaching: Using Bullet Journals in the FYC Classroom to
Create Mindfulness and Accountability
Using the Bullet Journal system as an effective tool for creating mindfulness
and accountability in the classroom.
Hillary Yeager, Middle Tennessee State University
Music and Writing: Peer Feedback in Writing Centers and Music Studios
We explore peer feedback in a conservatory writing center and extend our
findings in other collaborative spaces, such as music studios.
Jelena Runic, Johns Hopkins University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 275

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 275

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Collaborative Dissertations in Composition: A Feminist and Critical
Disruption of the Status Quo
Laura and Sabatino Mangini share their story about writing composition's firstever collaborative and cooperative dissertation study.
Laura Mangini, Community College of Philadelphia
Sabatino Mangini, Delaware County Community College
Smartphones Boost Student Motivation in the Classroom
In a pre–post survey assessment, remedial ENG students report higher levels of
intrinsic motivation in courses infused with design thinking.
Kara Jensen Maddox, Georgia Military College, Macon
Sound Writing: Enabling and Enacting Tutor Training for Audio Essays
This poster uses data gathered from writing center tutors to identify best
practices for training them to support audio compositions.
Renee Drouin, Rutgers University
Brynn Kairis, Rutgers University
Cultivating Sustainability: The Composition Classroom as a Matrix for the
Integration of Feminism and Evangelical Christianity
Composition teachers can cultivate sustainability within feminism and
evangelicalism by integrating them in the classroom.
Laura Griffith, Idaho State University

Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions

J.01

Think Tank on Prior Learning Assessment and Competency-Based
Education
Prior Learning Assessment and Competency-Based
Education: What Writing Teachers Need to Know

Although prior learning assessment has existed for about four decades,
in the last five years both it and the newer model of competency-based
education have emerged as growing trends in higher education. These
practices are still relatively unknown among most college writing
faculty, however. As student debt continues to rise and colleges and
universities seek out more (path)ways to increase graduation rates,
writing faculty need to be informed about the workings of these
approaches and, as some composition scholars have argued, the
opportunities they may present.

Portland Ballroom 256

276

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 276

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Facilitators: Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, MA
Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin–Marathon County
Cathy Leaker, SUNY Empire State College
Michelle Navarre Cleary, DePaul University
Eva Payne, Chemeketa Community College
Clancy Ratliff, University of Louisiana at Lafayette

J.02

Cultivating Graduate and Early Career Academic Writers

Meeting the Needs of Adult Writers: A Programmatic
Coaching Perspective

This Cultivate mini-workshop session addresses the
professionalization needs of graduate students and academic
writers in early career. We consider how writing programs should
include both program-level writing development opportunities and
individual coaching for these adult writers. Graduate school is the
new college, and the needs of adult writers is one of just-in-time
learning, an andragogical model, rather than the just-in-case learning,
the pedagogical model used with most undergraduate writing.
Dissertations, scholarly articles, monographs, edited collection
chapters, job materials, and the like form the corpus of just-in-time
writing instruction needs that we address. Coaching is the preferred
teaching style for many of these adult writers, and we demonstrate
why and how to begin to approach adult writers differently from their
undergraduate counterparts.

Portland Ballroom 254
Facilitators: Beth Hewett, Defend & Publish
Daveena Tauber, ScholarStudio
Robin Zeff Warner, Defend & Publish

J.03

Cultivating CCCC Conference Proposals

Conference Proposal Submission 101: A Guide to the
Process

A successful convention program begins with high-quality proposals.
In this Cultivate session, experienced Stage 1 and Stage 2 reviewers
will describe the review (and acceptance) processes for each stage
and the proposal submission policies and procedures. Additionally,
facilitators will offer insights and advice for how to develop a strong
CCCC proposal. During this interactive session, participants will have
the opportunity to engage in a mock proposal review, to ask questions
about the submission form and process, and to begin developing ideas
for CCCC 2018 proposals.

Portland Ballroom 251
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 277

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 277

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Facilitators: William Banks, East Carolina University
Heidi Estrem, Boise State University, ID
Dodie Forrest, Yakima Valley College, WA
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College
Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University
Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University
Staci Perryman-Clark, Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
Kelly Ritter, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Donnie Sackey, Wayne State University
Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Tech
Jennifer Wingard, University of Houston

J.04

10-Research

Qualitative Studies of Writing about Writing: Classrooms,
Programs, and Trends
Sponsored by the Writing about Writing Development Standing Group
Three qualitative studies of writing about writing focusing on an
individual teacher, a program, and trends in US and Canadian pedagogy.

C124
Chair: Jan Rieman, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Speakers: Rebecca Babcock, University of Texas Permian Basin, Odessa,
"Conceptions of WAW: A Qualitative Study"
Cynthia Cochran, Illinois College, "Conceptions of WAW: A Qualitative
Study"
Lena Harper, Brigham Young University, "Contextualizing Contrasting
Perceptions of WAW Failure: A Case Study of a Stand-Alone WAWFYC Course"
Samuel Stinson, Ohio University, Athens, "Writing-about-Writing and
Post-Departmental Support"
David Stock, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT, "Contextualizing
Contrasting Perceptions of WAW Failure: A Case Study of a StandAlone WAW-FYC Course"
Respondent: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman

278

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 278

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.05

9-Professional and Technical Writing

Rhetorics of Health and Medicine: A Roundtable
Examining Ways to Sustain Growth and Cultivate New
Opportunities
Sponsored by the Medical Rhetoric Standing Group
The roundtable addresses questions about how to sustain growth and
cultivate new opportunities in the field of medical and health rhetoric.

D131
Chair: Lora Arduser, University of Cincinnati
Speakers: Raquel Baldwinson, University of British Columbia, "Applied,
Useful, and Involved: Creating Opportunities for Deliberative
Rhetoricians"
Colleen Derkatch, Ryerson University, "Methodology and Disciplinary
Identity: 'Legibility' in RHM"
Brian Harrell, University of Akron, "Creation, Collaboration, and
Connection: Cultivating Meaningful Relationships between Those Who
Write about Medicine and Those Who Practice Medicine"
Daniel Kenzie, Purdue University, "Cultivating Relationships within
Medical Research: Traumatic Brain Injury, Scientific Uncertainty, and
Rhetorical Interventions"
Christa Teston, The Ohio State University, "'Hit-and-Run Rhetorical
Criticism' in RHM Scholarship"

J.06

13-Writing Programs

Fostering Social Justice Frameworks: Activist Praxis in
the Practical Spaces of Writing Programs

This panel takes on practical and theoretical notions, considering the ways
the field implements or balks at activism in everyday practices.

D136
Speakers: Erin M. Andersen, Centenary University, "Cultivating Change,
Complicating Literacies: One Writing Center's History of Assessment"
Joshua Belknap, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Destabilizing Monolingual
Assumptions: Translingual WAC Workshops"
Seth Graves, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Pragmatic Praxis: Critical
Literacy in a Writing Across the Disciplines Course"
Robert Greco, The Graduate Center, CUNY, "Mapping Institutional
Spaces to Foster Long-Term Activist WPA Goals"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 279

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 279

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.07

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Building Sustainable Coalitions to Support Communities
of Color

This panel highlights how various communities of color build sustainable
coalitions and networks of support.

F152
Chair: Gary Thompson, Saginaw Valley State University
Speakers: Mara Holt, Ohio University, "Cultural Competencies: A Call
from Black Lives Action Coalition"
Sara Large, Lasell College, "The Cultivation of Cosmopolitan Identities
through Translingual Practice: Mongolian Access Micro Scholarship
Alumni on Facebook"
Renee Moreno, California State University, Northridge, "'It's trauma
because it's such a traumatized society': Engaging Social Justice in a
Chicano Studies Writing Classroom"

J.08

10-Research

Assessing the Assessment Process: Meta-Cultivation
through a Portfolio Outcomes Project

This presentation will invite participants to learn about and participate in a
meta-assessment of FYC portfolios.

E144
Chair: Michael Day, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb
Speakers: Beth Buyserie, Washington State University, Pullman, "MetaAssessment in Practice: Results and Applications of a Portfolio
Outcomes Project"
Patricia Ericsson, Washington State University, "Setting the Stage for
Programmatic Meta-Assessment"
Matthew Frye, Washington State University, "Gaining Momentum:
Creating, Maintaining, and Revising a Local Assessment Instrument"
Respondent: Tialitha Macklin, California State University, Sacramento

J.09

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Innovative Pedagogical Approaches: Cultivating and
Integrating Threshold Concepts in the First-Year Writing
Classroom
Researchers apply theory to practice and share innovative pedagogical
approaches that integrate threshold concepts in writing classrooms.

A108
Speakers: Margaret Bundy, Boise State University
Danielle Packard, Boise State University
Jan Roser, Boise State University
280

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 280

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.10

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Chopping Off the Heavy Hand: Fostering Dialogue by
Flipping Assessment

Flipped assessment: exploring what happens when we invite students to
initiate the assessment dialogue.

B113
Chair: Emilie Zickel, Cleveland State University
Speakers: John Brentar, Cleveland State University
Melanie Gagich, Cleveland State University
Sarah Lacy, Cleveland State University

J.11

6-Information Technologies

Manipulating Virtual Environments

In various and provocative ways, the presenters on this panel describe
interventions in popular online ecologies.

B111
Chair: Ritu Sharma, Kaplan University
Speakers: Melissa Larabee, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
"Why Comments Don't Suck: On Metaphors and Misunderstanding"
Spencer Schaffner, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Gaming
to the Top of the Amazon Review System"
Erika Sparby, Northern Illinois University, "Meming/Counter-Meming:
Remixing Negative Memes to Deconstruct Stereotypes"
Rachael Sullivan, Saint Joseph's University, "Photoshop This! Visual
Rhetoric in a Digital Culture"

J.12

10-Research

Transfer, Habits of Mind, and Threshold Concepts: Trends
Redefining the Fields
Participants describe lines of inquiry that are becoming increasingly
important to understanding student writing for the purposes of
pedagogical, programmatic, and institutional accountability.

C122
Chair: Kelsie Hope Walker, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Christopher Blankenship, Salt Lake Community College, "The
Frame and the Foil: Integrating Threshold Concepts and Outcomes
Assessment in First-Year Composition"
Meghan Dykema, Florida State University, "Communicating Disciplinary
Knowledge through Accreditation-Based Writing and Learning
Initiatives"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 281

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 281

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Robert Kaplan, Stony Brook University, "Transfer and the Writing Minor:
Report on a First-Time Study"
Peter Khost, Stony Brook University, "Transfer and the Writing Minor:
Report on a First-Time Study"
Shelley Reid, George Mason University, "Processes and Dispositions:
Mapping Student Habits of Mind onto Composing Skills"

J.13

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Going Global

This panel explores the benefits of a globally focused curriculum in
writing programs.

C125
Chair: Matthew Abraham, University of Arizona
Speakers: Soni Adhikari, Stony Brook University
Marohang Limbu, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Maureen Salzer, Pima Community College

J.14

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Cultivating Promise: Marginalization, Advocacy, and
Transformative Practice in the FYC Classroom

Transformative FYC practices hold potential to empower marginalized
students—trauma survivors, autistic females, and basic writers.

B114
Speakers: Carol Erwin, Eastern New Mexico University, Portales
Opal Greer, Eastern New Mexico University, Portales
Denise Hill, Arizona State University

J.15

3-Community, Civic & Public

#blackgirls4change: Cultivating Community and Creating
Change through PhotoVoice
This panel focuses on PhotoVoice methodology, data collection, and
findings with adolescent girls in the nation's second-oldest Black town.

C123
Chair: Michelle Robinson, The University of Alabama
Speakers: Candace Chambers, The University of Alabama, "PhotoVoice
in Action: Modeling Methodology, Demonstrating Change"
Khirsten Echols, University of Louisville, "Black Girls Cultivating
Empowerment in Black Girls: The Real Work of PhotoVoice"

282

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 282

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Margaret Holloway, The University of Alabama, "PhotoVoice Methods,
Challenges, and Changes: Research Cultivated in Communities"
Michelle Robinson, The University of Alabama, "Partnership, Pedagogy,
Practice, and Publication: Cultivating Change in the Campus/
Community Gap"

J.16

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Transforming Reluctant Writers' Attitudes toward FYC:
Cultivating Advocates for Change
This panel explores a variety of theoretical and practical approaches to
encourage students' advocacy for community and global change.

A106
Chair: Erin Sagerson, Weatherford College, TX
Speakers: Jared Abraham, Weatherford College, "Helping Reluctant
Writers Find their Voice through Normalizing Writing in FYC"
Diann Ainsworth, Weatherford College, TX, "Grammar Snobs, Intellectual
Elitists, and Pop Culture Fanatics: Cultivating Connections with the
Academy through Student FYC Manifestos for Change"
Sarah Liles, Weatherford College, TX, "Inspiring Reluctant Writers
through Increasing Community Engagement and Real-World Writing"

J.17

7-Institutional and Professional

The Role of Composition and Writing Studies in Changing
University Curricula
Writing program practices must meet pedagogical, political, and
conceptual challenges as they adapt to changes in liberal arts nationwide.

D137
Chair: Joonna Trapp, Emory University
Speakers: Brad Peters, Northern Illinois University, "Composition and
Writing Studies in the 'New' English Department"
Paul Puccio, Bloomfield College, "The Semesters of Our Discontent:
Writing and the Changing Landscape of English Studies"
Trac Volz, Rice University, "Managing Collaboration and Conflict
between a Writing Program and a School of Humanities"
Respondent: Joonna Trapp, Emory University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 283

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 283

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.18

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Toward a More Ethical Writing Assessment: Cultivating
Risk, Range, and Reflection with the Learning Record

The Learning Record is an open-ended method of assessment that enables
instructors to put students' strengths at the center of evaluation.

Portland Ballroom 258
Speakers: Ron Brooks, Oklahoma State University
Kendall Gerdes, Texas Tech University
Steven LeMieux, University of Texas at Austin
Sean McCarthy, James Madison University
Timothy Richardson, University of Texas at Arlington

J.19

2-Basic Writing

Cultivating Engagement through Open-Mindedness,
Hospitality, and Intercultural Dialogue in Basic Writing
Classrooms

This panel shares strategies for using open-mindedness, hospitality, and
intercultural dialogue to engage basic writers in composition.

D139
Chair: Karen Shea, Johnson & Wales University
Emily Spitzman, Bridgewater State University, "Facilitating Intercultural
Dialogue to Foster Reflective, Ethnorelative Communication and
Writing"
Speakers: Nancy A. Benson, University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth,
"Cultivating Authentic Literacy Development with First-Year Students"
Karen Shea, Johnson & Wales University, "Open-Mindedness as Active
Inquiry: The Key to Sustaining the Richness of Diversity"

J.20

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Cultivating Compliance through Rhetorics of SelfTransformation

Panelists interrogate the seemingly self-transformative rhetorics of Title
IX programs, "bootstrap" poverty narratives, and fitness apps.

C120
Chair: Connie Snyder Mick, University of Notre Dame, "Cultivating
Compliance through Rhetorics of Self-Transformation"
Speakers: Rebecca Brittenham, Indiana University South Bend, "Tracking
the Perfected You"
April Lidinsky, Indiana University South Bend, "Cultures of Compliance
or Compassion: Rhetorics of Consent Campaigns on Campus"
Connie Snyder Mick, University of Notre Dame, "Bootstrapping Our Way
out of Poverty"
284

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 284

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.21

10-Research

Connecting, Cultivating, Creating: Research on the
Meandering Paths of Nontraditional Academic Women

This session discusses results of a pilot survey and follow-up interviews of
women who began or completed graduate study after age thirty.

D133
Chair: Linda Hanson, Ball State University, "Introduction"
Speakers: Theresa (Tess) Evans, Miami University, Oxford, OH,
"Cultivating Spaces for Nontraditional Perspectives"
Karen Neubauer, Purdue University, "Creating Narratives That Challenge
Traditional Trajectories"
Dani Weber, Sullivan County Community College, "Connecting with
Colleagues on Meandering Paths"

J.22

6-Information Technologies

Exploring New Media and Digital Culture through Lived
Literacy Practices

An interactive session drawing on student-collected data to consider how
inquiry can inform new media studies–related research.

E141
Speakers: Eleanor Kutz, University of Massachusetts Boston
Denise Paster, Coastal Carolina University
Christian Pulver, Roger Williams University

J.23

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Multilingual Connections

These panelists examine pedagogies that emphasize cross-cultural
connections for EFL students and multilingual classrooms.

C126
Chair: Kathleen Welch, University of Oklahoma
Speakers: David Ramsey, Zayed University, "West Meets East: Dialogic
Pedagogy in the Middle East"
Brooke Ricker, Baruch College, CUNY, "Innovation from Negotiation:
What EFL Writing Instruction Can Teach Us"
Yi Yu, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Cultivating a Multimodal
Reading Approach in First-Year Multilingual Writing Classrooms"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 285

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 285

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.24

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Cultivating (Meta)Transfer: Changing Individual,
Programmatic, and Institutional Dispositions through a
Revisioning of Stretch
Revisiting stretch with reflections on instructor and institutional
dispositions, text analysis, and autoethnographic case studies.

A105
Chair: Lisa Tremain, Humboldt State University, "Theoretical
Implications of Meta-Transfer"
Speakers: Marianne Ahokas, Humboldt State University, "Disposition: It's
Not Just for Students Anymore"
Sarah Ben-Zvi, Humboldt State University, "In the Process of
Transformation: Planning Our Future Research and Practice"
Kerry Marsden, Humboldt State University, "Institutional Dispositions:
When the Deficit Model Is Transferred to Stretch"
Erin Sullivan, Humboldt State University, "Harnessing Constraint: How
Disappointment and Frustration Fueled Our Reflection and Desire for
Transformation"

J.25

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Capacity Building for Community Engagement: Scaling
Up from Local Inquiry to Writing Programs to Institutional
Initiatives
Panelists discuss the relationship between community-based inquiry and
first-year writing program administration.

F149
Chair: Melissa Nicolas, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Austin Kelly, University of Nevada, Reno
Amanda Pratt, University of Nevada, Reno
Cassie Sander, University of Nevada, Reno
Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno

J.26

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Cultivating Capacities in Rhetoric, Mentoring, and
Administering

This panel will discuss ways to cultivate rhetorical abilities and to develop
professional capacities for mentoring and administering.

E145

286

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 286

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Speakers: Cheryl Glenn, Pennsylvania State University, "Building
Capacities through Mutual Mentoring"
Shirley Logan, University of Maryland, College Park, "Cultivating
Feminist Rhetorical Research Abilities in Undergraduates"
Krista Ratcliffe, Purdue University, "Building Capacities and Change
through Administrative Partnering"
Respondent: Joyce Irene Middleton, East Carolina University

J.27

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Naming What WE Know: A Roundtable on Knowledge
Production in Composition

This roundtable takes up the issue of knowledge production within the
field of composition studies.

Portland Ballroom 252
Chair: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Speakers: Jonathan Alexander, University of California, Irvine
Eli Goldblatt, Temple University
Angela M. Haas, Illinois State University
Paula Mathieu, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA
Jacqueline Rhodes, Michigan State University

J.28

8-Language

Fostering Global Citizenship, Diversity, and Inclusion:
Reaching beyond Linguistic Awareness in Translingual
and Translocal Pedagogies

This panel discusses how translingual pedagogy can be used to advocate
for global citizenship in the writing classroom.

E142
Chair: Julia Kiernan, Kettering University, Flint, MI
Speakers: Emily Cooney, University of North Alabama, "Creating Space
for Translingual Discourse in the First-Year Composition Classroom"
Ming Fang, Florida International University, "Same Principles, Different
Practices: Promoting Global Citizenship and Diversity in First-Year
Composition"
Zsuzsanna Palmer, Grand Valley State University, "Building Connections
through Conversations: The Power of Shared Allegiances and Interests
That Reach beyond Borders"
Xiqiao Wang, Michigan State University, "Telling Stories, Finding Voices"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 287

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 287

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.29

3-Community, Civic & Public

Writing as Partnership: Negotiating and Sustaining
Dynamic Community Writing Projects

This presentation suggests three methods to negotiate the complex and
inherently asymmetrical partnerships of community writing projects.

E147
Speakers: Emily Avery-Miller, Northeastern University
Whitney James, Texas Christian University
Elizabeth Parfitt, Emerson College
Stephen Shane, Emerson College

J.30

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

Political Climate, Sustainability, and Paradigm Shifts

Cool Rogerian argument, reflection as action, technology, and
permaculture principles informing first-year composition are discussed.

A103
Chair: Mike Cabot, American University, Washington DC
Speakers: LaRue Diehl, Papillion-LaVista South High School, Papillion,
NE, "The Permaculture Classroom: Sustainable Design Principles for
Composition Pedagogy"
Faith Kurtyka, Creighton University, "The Permaculture Classroom:
Sustainable Design Principles for Composition Pedagogy"
Bonnie Markowski, University of Scranton, "Cultivating Change through
the Ignatian Pedagogical Paradigm: Using Reflection AS Action"
Adam Phillips, University of Tampa, "Technology and Composition:
Fostering Change through Socially and Politically Conscientious
Students"
Kathleen Spada, Northern Kentucky University, "Starting with WHY:
An Inquiry and Rogerian-Based Approach to Cultivating Critical
Engagement in the Advanced Composition Classroom"

J.31

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Sensing Rhetoric and the Rhetoric of the Senses

This session examines connections between sensory-based contemplative
practices and teaching.

E148
Chair: Heather Fitzgerald, Emily Carr University of Art and Design
Speakers: Cheryl Hoy, Bowling Green State University, OH, "Locating
the Present Moment: Finding the Mind/Body Connection in an
Embodied Classroom"
Matthew Jacobson, University of Oklahoma, "Podcast Pedagogy
Reconsidered: How 'Unrevised' Podcasts and the 'Wild Meat
288

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 288

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Movement' Model Rhetorical Complexity and Conversational
Persuasion"
Christine Olding, Kent State University, "'I Ain't No Note Reader':
Re-creating Les Paul's Composing Process to Gain Multimodal
Instructional Insight"
Amanda Rzicznek, Bowling Green State University, "Locating the
Present Moment: Finding the Mind/Body Connection in an Embodied
Classroom"

J.32

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Teaching Documentation: New Uses for Style Guides in
the Writing Classroom
Sponsored by the Modern Language Association
Pedagogical approaches to teaching documentation: how teaching with
style guides can help students with writing and digital research.

B116
Chair: Andrea A. Lunsford, Stanford University
Speakers: Nancy Foasberg, Queens College, CUNY, "Citing Rhetorically
in the Classroom"
Angela Gibson, Modern Language Association, "MLA Style in Practice:
An Editor's Perspective on Learning and Teaching the New Style"
Denice Martone, New York University, "'If I can find the source, I
credit it': Understanding ESL Student Writers' Digital Research and
Composing Habits"
Respondent: Deborah H. Holdstein, Columbia College Chicago

J.33

4-Creative Writing

Creative Nonfiction and Composition: Cultivating
Creative, Academic, and Socially Conscious Connections
The presenters on this panel argue for creative nonfiction in the
composition classroom.

F151
Chair: Allison Schuette, Valparaiso University
Speakers: Anne Auten, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, "Writing
the Self: Implementing and Assessing Autoethnography in the FirstYear Composition Classroom"
Melissa Goldthwaite, Saint Joseph's University, "Creative Nonfiction as a
Foundational Academic Literacy"
Jenny Spinner, Saint Joseph's University, "Cultivating the Relationship
between Creative Nonfiction and Composition Studies"
Respondent: Jane Danielewicz, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 289

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 289

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.34

13-Writing Programs

Will the Center Hold? Addressing New Challenges to
Writing Center Pedagogy and Autonomy

What can writing centers do to maintain 40+ years of pedagogy and
practice when universities merge them with other units and fire faculty?

Portland Ballroom 257
Respondents: Chloe Diepenbrock, University of Houston–Clear Lake,
"Being Strategic: Prevention, Response, and Recovery"
Shareen Grogan, National University, "I Feel the Earth Move under My
Feet"
Ben Rafoth, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Rethinking the Mission
of Writing Centers"
Patricia Stephens, Curry College, "Thing Fall Apart, but This Center
Holds: Resisting One-Stop Shopping in the Learning Commons"
Roundtable Leader: Joe Essid, University of Richmond, "Leaving Camp
Better Than I Found It"

J.35

12-Theory

Citizenship, Rhetoric, and Political Life

This panel examines rhetorics of political power that support paranoia and
warfare and invade the lives of students in the writing classroom.

D134
Chair: Celeste Amos, Loyola Marymount University
Speakers: Shereen Inayatulla, York College, CUNY, "Sans Papiers:
Studying Citizenship and Documentation in the Writing Classroom"
Michael MacDonald, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Sans Papiers:
Studying Citizenship and Documentation in the Writing Classroom"
Bernie Miller, Eastern Michigan University, "Supporting Our Tropes:
Witchcraft and the War on Terrorism"
Michael Sobiech, Carson-Newman University, "Paranoia's Political
Power: Donald Trump's Conspiracy Rhetoric"

J.36

12-Theory

Post-/De-/Colonialisms in Composition and Beyond
Speakers utilize post-/de-/colonial perspectives and consider their
applications in composition and beyond.

D132
Chair: Amber Jensen, George Mason University
Speakers: Thomas Bolding, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville,
"The Colonized Voice: Postcolonialism in Contemporary Composition"

290

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 290

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Chelsea Murdock, University of Kansas, Lawrence, "Decolonizing the
Conversation and 'The New Eden' Exhibit"
Joanna Sanchez-Avila, University of Arizona, "Came Back Haunted:
Resistance toward Becoming a Copy of a Copy in Multiculturalism's
Discourse of Difference and Inclusion"

J.37

13-Writing Programs

Access in Writing Centers and Programs

Speakers examine access and the future of multiliteracy in writing centers.

D140
Chair: Noel Holton, SUNY Farmingdale
Speakers: Joseph Cheatle, Michigan State University, "Building for the
Future: Multiliteracy in the Writing Center"
Jason Custer, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "Multiple Modes,
Multiple Contexts: A Descriptive Overview of Administrator
Philosophies and Practices for Preparing Tutors to Assist with Digital
Multimodal Compositions"
Roger Munger, Boise State University, "Student Distress: Understanding
and Using Policies, Laws, and Acts to Foster Safer Conditions for
Learning"
Angela Shaffer, Texas Tech University, "How We Teach Our Teachers:
UDL as Pedagogy"

J.38

12-Theory

Remediating Cross-Disciplinary Capacities: Digital
Humanities, Social Media, Fan Studies, and Disability
Rhetoric

Cultivating capacity at the intersections of composition and the digital
humanities, social media, fan studies, and disability rhetoric.

B118
Chair: Christie Toth, University of Utah
Speakers: Geneva Canino, University of Houston, "'Can We Talk?':
Social Media Self-Advocacy and Rendering Disability"
Merideth Garcia, University of Michigan, "Composing the Social (Media)
Self: Connecting the Rhetorics of Social Media Communication and
Academic Composing"
James Hammond, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, "Reassessing
Distant Reading: Cultivating Connections between the Digital
Humanities and Writing Assessment"
Adrienne Raw, University of Michigan, "Tags and Trigger Warnings:
Connecting Discourse in Fan and Academic Spaces"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 291

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 291

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.39

8-Language

Poetics and Style in the Teaching of Writing

This panel encourages writing instructors to make use of literary and
poetic strategies in the composition classroom to aid with literacy transfer
and ESL development.

B112
Chair: Dawn Penich-Thacker, South Mountain Community College
Speakers: Xinqiang Li, Michigan State University, East Lansing,
"Constructing a Western Realistic Discourse in the Contact Zone"
Fang Yu Liao, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "Cultivating English
Composition Classes through Writing Poetry: A Translingual
Approach"
Heidi Naylor, Boise State University, "Poetics: Literary Connections for
FY Multilingual Writers"
Kristina Reardon, College of the Holy Cross, "Awakening the Sleeping
Metaphor of Translation in Composition Studies"

J.40

3-Community, Civic & Public

Cultivating Social Activism in the Classroom

This session highlights ways to cultivate social activism effectively in
response to varied, and often political, rhetorical situations.

C121
Chair: Craig Wynne, Hampton University
Speakers: James Beitler, Wheaton College
Heather Lettner-Rust, Longwood University
Janet Lively, Northwestern Michigan College
Craig Wynne, Hampton University

J.41

9-Professional and Technical Writing

Reproductive Discourses as Sites for Rhetorical
Cultivation of Social Action

This panel considers the complex intersections between women's
reproductive health and the discourses that mediate their bodies.

E143
Speakers: Lori Beth De Hertogh, James Madison University
Erin A. Frost, East Carolina University
Amy Koerber, Texas Tech University
Sheri Rysdam, Utah Valley University

292

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 292

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Tribute Session
J.42

Tribute Session: Harvey J. Graff

Harvey J. Graff, Literacy Studies, and Composition
This roundtable will reflect on literacy studies and composition
through the work of Harvey J. Graff.

Portland Ballroom 253
Chair: John Duffy, University of Notre Dame
Speakers: Patrick Berry, Syracuse University, "Literacy Myths and
Hope behind Bars"
Kim Donehower, University of North Dakota, "Literacy as Community
Property"
John Duffy, University of Notre Dame, "Writing the 'People without
History': Orality, Literacy, and the Work of Harvey J. Graff"
Michael Harker, Georgia State University, "See Harvey J. Graff, or, A
Necessary Beginning for the 'New' Humanities"
Peter Mortensen, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, "Town,
Village, Farm: Another Look at Early Twentieth-Century Mass
Literacy"
Amy Wan, Queens College, CUNY, "Managing Literacy Myths in the
Global University"
Respondent: Harvey J. Graff, The Ohio State University

J.43

7-Institutional and Professional

(Re-)Creating the MA: Cultivating Professional
Development in the Classroom and Beyond

This panel suggests programmatic changes that cultivate professional
development for the sake of the graduate students involved.

A107
Speakers: Michael Berns, California State University, Northridge
Eric Kufs, California State University, Northridge
J. C. Lee, California State University, Northridge
Sharon Lim, California State University, Northridge
Kylowna Moton, California State University, Northridge/LA City College

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 293

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 293

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.44

3-Community, Civic & Public

Rhetoric and Community Engagement: Implications for
Food and Nutrition

Several perspectives on the relationship between community engagement
initiatives, food, and nutrition.

B110
Chair: Shelley DeBlasis, New Mexico State University Carlsbad
Speakers: Meaghan Elliott Dittrich, University of New Hampshire,
"Food Literacies: The Rhetoric of Meal-Kits and How They Cultivate
Culinary Capabilities"
Megan Schoen, Oakland University, "Writing Programs, Public Rhetoric,
and the Flint Water Crisis"
Melissa Sprenkle, Northwestern Michigan College, "Community Engaged
Writing Projects in a Rural Two-Year College: Raising Awareness of
Hunger and Homelessness in Pure Michigan"

J.45

3-Community, Civic & Public

The Rigged Race: Public Memory, Local Connections,
and Cultivating Change

This roundtable explores the complex relationships between success and
failure inherent to community engagement.

E146
Speakers: Tabetha Adkins, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "'I Didn't
Know We Had to Fight:' Cultivating Change, One Cookie at a Time"
Shannon Carter, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "125/50 Years Later:
Challenging Institutional Memories in the Jim Crow South"
Donna Dunbar-Odom, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Cultivating
Town-Gown Connections: Productive Failure and Sustainable Change"
Diana Hines, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "Tapping the Well in
Rural Texas: A University-Community Storytelling Project"
Tobi Jacobi, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, "Not 'All Ellas':
Risking Exploitation in a Prison Public Memory Project"

J.46

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

Creating Socially Engaged Writing Pedagogies:
Identifying and Analyzing Contemporary American Indian
Realities in First-Year Writing, English Education, and
Online Literature Courses
This teaching demonstration utilizes and examines a variety of writing
activities. Participants will obtain ideas, materials, and resources.

B115

294

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 294

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

Chair: Matthew Hollrah, University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond
Speakers: Meredith Bigheart-Seagraves, University of Central Oklahoma,
Edmond
Laura Bolf-Beliveau, University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond
Timothy Petete, University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond

J.47

13-Writing Programs

Using Grounded Inquiry as a Method for (Re)Designing
Writing Majors

This panel presents grounded inquiry as a method for cultivating action
through the assessment, analysis, and (re)design of writing majors.

F150
Chair: TJ Geiger, Baylor University
Speakers: Kara Poe Alexander, Baylor University
Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, Texas
Coretta M. Pittman, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Lisa Shaver, Baylor University
Danielle Williams, Baylor University

J.48

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

The Role of the Personal, Empathy, Compassion, and
Metacognition in First-Year Composition Pedagogy

Presenters discuss enriching first-year composition through compassion,
the personal, metacognition, and empathy in the classroom.

A104
Chair: Abby Dubisar, Iowa State University
Speakers: Samantha Looker, University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh,
"Cultivating Active Empathy for Linguistic Difference: Rhetorical
Listening and Testimonial Reading in First-Year Writing"
Erica Rogers, University of Wisconsin–Eau Claire, "Cultivating
Wholeness: Healing the Rift between Reason and Emotion, 'The
Public' and 'The Personal' in a Composition Classroom"
Albert Rouzie, Ohio University, "Learning to Represent Their Learning:
Metacognitive Awareness in FYC"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 295

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 295

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

J.49

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

Past Forward: How Rhetorical Practices before and
beyond the Alphabet Can Inform Composition and CrossCultural Approaches to Rhetoric
Examines how nonalphabetic practices outside a Eurocentric framework
can reform trends in multimodal, cross-cultural, and translingual rhetoric.

Portland Ballroom 255
Speakers: Chanon Adsanatham, University of Maryland
Damián Baca, University of Arizona, Tucson
Ellen Cushman, Northeastern University
Jonathan Osborne, Northeastern University
Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus

J.50

12-Theory

Vital Concepts: Returning "Stability," "Context," and
"Epistemology" to Posthumanist Writing and Rhetoric
Studies
Returning/rethinking "outdated" concepts as a way of cultivating
intellectual vitality in the classroom, the public sphere, and the field.

B119
Speakers: Julie Jung, Illinois State University, Normal, "Calling Out
Posthumanism's Epistemic Neglect"
Chris Mays, University of Nevada, Reno, "Cultivating Stability in Writing
(Studies)"
Maclain Scott, University of Texas at Austin, "Contextualizing Context"

J.51

12-Theory

Listening, Making, Mattering, Writing, Changing: Some
Ethical Intersections of Digitality and Media

This panel looks to Maker culture as we ask how to stretch the possibilities
for writing classrooms.

D138
Speakers: Kristin Arola, Washington State University, "'All Things Are
Alive. Everything Is Related': An Indigenous Approach to Making"
Kristin Prins, Cal Poly Pomona, "DIY Public Rhetoric in the Multimodal
Writing Workshop"
Anne Wysocki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Making as
Rhetorical Listening and Mattering"

296

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 296

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 2:00–3:15 p.m.

2-Basic Writing

J.52 	 K–16 Partnerships and Initiatives: Benefiting Basic
Writers

This panel examines local and national perspectives on K–12 connections,
positive and negative.

A109
Chair: Heather Aguailar, Ventura College
Speakers: Lisa Abney, Northwestern State University, "Innovation in the
Face of Policy Mandates: K–16 Partnerships, Corequisites, and College
Readiness for First-Year Writing"
Lisa Davis, Northwestern State University, "Innovation in the Face
of Policy Mandates: K–16 Partnerships, Corequisites, and College
Readiness for First-Year Writing"
Lee Einhorn, Central Connecticut State University, "Save Basic Writing,
Save the Public University"
W. Gary Griswold, California State University, Long Beach, "Disjunctive
Assessment: A Local and System-Wide Examination of the California
State University Early Start Mandate"
Nicole Hancock, Southwestern Illinois College, "How to Grow an
Assessment from the Ground"
Bradford Nadziejko, Southwestern Illinois College, "How to Grow an
Assessment from the Ground"

J.53

10-Research

Nourishing the Self, Cultivating the Archives, Enriching
the Public: Sustaining the Work of Royster, Rohan, and
Kirsch
This panel examines archival research in physical and digital sites by
sustaining and expanding on the work of Royster, Rohan, and Kirsch.

D135
Speakers: Erin Chandler, University of Montevallo, "Sustaining the Self
in the Public Archives"
Keri Mathis, University of Louisville, "Developing Capacity for Diverse
Research Practices in the Archives"
Jennie Vaughn, Gannon University, "Cultivating Relationships and the
Archives"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 297

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 297

2/8/17 9:55 AM

J.54

9-Professional and Technical Writing

Entrepreneurship in Technical Communication? Yes!

Three case studies that cultivate discussion about entrepreneurship in
technical communication.

B117
Chair: Geoffrey Clegg, Western Michigan University
Speakers: Jeffrey Gerding, Purdue University, "When Is a Solution Not
a Solution? The Rhetorical Work of Civic Entrepreneurship in Solving
Problems That Cannot Be Solved"
Allie Oosta, Amazon.com, "Writing in the Workplace: Document Revising
as Collaborative Creative Process"
Jenna Sheffield, University of New Haven, "#contentstrategy: A
Workplace Study of One Global Tech Startup's Digital Communication
Strategies and the Implications for Professional Writing Pedagogy"
Kyle Vealey, West Chester University, "When Is a Solution Not a
Solution? The Rhetorical Work of Civic Entrepreneurship in Solving
Problems That Cannot Be Solved"

298

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 298

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

K Sessions: 3:30–4:45 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Response to Student Writing

K.01	 Cultivating Response: Seeing Teacher Comments
through Students' Eyes

Responding to students' writing consumes so much time, energy, and
empathy, and yet, paradoxically, it is the element of our work that we
least understand. In this workshop-style Cultivate session, we will
examine the task of responding to student writing and explore how
students read and understand our written comments. Participants will
first read a student's draft and the teacher's comments and discuss this
material in a small-group breakout. We will then show a video of a
discourse-based interview with the student, exploring what sense the
student made of the teacher's comments relative to the intentions for
the paper. Together, we will explore the basic questions: What kind
of reader do we become when we take up residence in the margins of
our students' papers? How do our comments help students become
confident writers? And we will raise questions about responding, given
the constraints of faculty workload and the demands of specific student
populations. From a discussion of one draft, we will move to a larger
reflection on what it means to be a thoughtful reader of student writing.

Portland Ballroom 255
Facilitators: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University
Nancy Sommers, Harvard University
Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College
Cultivating Intergenerational Conversations about Retirement

K.02	 Cultivating Your Future: An Intergenerational
Conversation on Paths toward—and beyond—
Retirement

Rhetoric and composition, like other fields, is in the early stages of
a mass exodus of senior faculty as a generation of scholars goes into
retirement; this carries momentous personal, professional, institutional,
and political consequences. We need to foster field-wide discussion of
the issues raised by this generational shift both for retiring faculty and
for the profession. This Cultivate roundtable, sponsored by the SIG for
Senior, Late Career, and Retired Professionals in Rhet/Comp/Writing
Studies, brings together scholars from different generations—those
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 299

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 299

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

anticipating and planning retirement to those long-retired—to explore
not only the personal dimension of retirement and the new horizons it
opens, but also the impact such retirements have on the profession.

Portland Ballroom 257
Chairs: Darsie Bowden, DePaul University
Louise Wetherbee Phelps, Old Dominion University
Facilitators: Akua Duku Anokye, Arizona State University, Glendale,
"Tending to That Pile of Research: With Pleasure"
Pamela Childers, The Clearing House, "A Healthy Professional and
Personal Life after Retirement: Risks and Rewards"
Joan Mullin, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, "Leaving a
Delicate Footprint: Planning, Supporting, and Mentoring as You
Exit"
Charles I. Schuster, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Retirement:
A View from 'Blade Runner'"
Chris Thaiss, University of California, Davis, "Teetering on the Edge of
Retirement: Looking Forward, Then Looking Back"
Joel Wingard, Bethlehem, PA, "Me an Adjunct? Considerations for
Teaching Part-Time"
WPA-GO Think Tank on Social Justice in Organizational and
Disciplinary Spaces

K.03	 Think Tank for Racial and Social Justice in the Writing
Program Administrators–Graduate Organization and
Beyond

Sponsored by the Writing Program Administrators–Graduate
Organization
The WPA-GO (Writing Program Administrators–Graduate
Organization) invites attendees to an interactive Think Tank session
where we develop concrete strategies for working toward a socially
just future inside our professional organizations of CCCC and CWPA
as well as in composition and rhetoric more broadly. As a graduate
organization, we are dedicated to interrupting racism and bias, and we
are also committed to ensuring that conference and disciplinary spaces
represent the needs and interests of graduate students from historically
marginalized and underrepresented groups. This featured session
is designed to "cultivate" collaborative exchanges that are actionoriented and audience-engaged with the goal of explicitly confronting
racism through critical and intersectional lenses. Recognizing that the
work of undoing racism and bias is complex and situation-specific
makes further conversation during and after the convention even more

300

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 300

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

important; thus, attendees can expect to leave our Think Tank with
resources and links to our session's digital spaces so that we may
continue the collaborative projects we start during the session.

Portland Ballroom 256
Facilitators: Jamila Kareem, University of Louisville
Mandy Macklin, University of Washington, Seattle

10-Research

K.04	 Centering Transnational Work: A Study of Writing
Practices in Tertiary Education in Romania, Nepal,
India, and Colombia

Sponsored by the Transnational Composition Standing Group
This panel examines the discourses and pedagogies of writing at specific
institutions in four countries.

D131
Speakers: Sara P. Alvarez, University of Louisville
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille
Santosh Khadka, California State University, Northridge
Ligia Mihut, Barry University
Brice Nordquist, Syracuse University
Ghanashyam Sharma, Stony Brook University
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

K.05	 Think Tank for Newcomers—Developing Papers and
Sessions for CCCC 2018

Sponsored by the CCCC Newcomers' Orientation Committee
At this Think Tank, newcomers will have an opportunity to develop ideas
for papers and sessions for CCCC 2018 under the guidance of established
scholars in our field.

Portland Ballroom 254
Chair: Christine Tulley, University of Findlay

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 301

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 301

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

8-Language

K.06	 Self-Perception, Reflexivity, and Cultivation in ESL/EFL
Student Learning

ESL/EFL/multilingual students' self-perceptions influence their learning,
writing, and outcomes in writing classes.

B117
Chair: Erica Frisicaro-Pawlowski, Daemen College
Speakers: Heather Finn, Borough of Manhattan Community College,
CUNY, "Articulating Struggle: ESL Students' Perceived Obstacles to
Success in a Developmental Writing Class"
Pearl Pang, Yonsei University, South Korea, "Lose That EFL Identity!
Cultivating Writers Using Literacy Narratives as a Site of Reflective
Agency"
Carol Severino, University of Iowa, "International Undergraduate
Students' Perceptions of Their Second Language Writing Development
and the Role of Writing Resources in It"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.07	 Four Perspectives on Mentoring Graduate Student
Teachers of Composition

Panelists working as/with graduate student FYC instructors describe their
experiences and specific strategies they have used for mentoring.

A108
Chair: Cheryl Glenn, Penn State University
Speakers: Sarah Adams, Penn State University, "Cultivating Collaborative
Reflection: Mentoring with Video Recording"
Amanda Kellogg, Radford University, "Critical Thinking in Teaching
Communication and Communicating about Teaching"
Curry Kennedy, Penn State University, "On Being Good Soil: Rhetorical
Trust and the Role of the Graduate Mentee"
Frank Napolitano, Radford University, "Resistance and Responsibility:
Reshaping a Mentoring Program in the Face of Administrative and
Instructional Conflict"
10-Research

K.08	 Peer Review Research, Latent Semantic Methods, and
Writing Analytics

Researchers from the University of South Florida and the University of
Pennsylvania report on lessons learned based on 250,000 peer reviews.

E143

302

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 302

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Chair: Laura Aull, Wake Forest University
Joe Moxley, University of South Florida, Tampa, "Collaborating and
Researching with My Reviewers"
Speakers: Rodger LeGrand, University of Pennsylvania, "Using NVivio to
Research the Peer Review Corpus"
Lan Ngo, University of Pennsylvania, "Latent Semantic Analysis of the
Peer Review Corpus"
Valerie Ross, University of Pennsylvania, "Review of Peer Review
Research and Theoretical Groundwork"
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.09	 Discursive Agency in Illness: Empowering Everyday
Writers to Cultivate Critical Communities  

Speakers analyze online writing communities that seek to bring together
those suffering from three chronic conditions.

E146
Speakers: Susan Ghiaciuc, James Madison University
Cynthia Martin, James Madison University
Cathryn Molloy, James Madison University
Bryna Siegel Finer, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.10	 Writing about Writing and Teaching for Transfer

Speakers consider the efficacy of Writing about Writing in multiple venues
and genres.

A103
Chair: Kenlea Pebbles, Michigan State University
Speakers: Veronica Flanagan, University of California, Santa Cruz,
"Teaching First-Year Composition in a College Core Course"
Joel Heng Hartse, Simon Fraser University, "Implementing a Writingabout-Writing Approach in a High-Stakes Foundational Writing
Course"
Ariel Zepeda, California State University, San Bernardino, "Reimagining
Transfer through Multimodal Re-mediation"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 303

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 303

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

12-Theory

K.11	 Visual Spaces, Physical Places, and Social Action

These panelists engage how space, place, bodies, and visual rhetorics
shape identities, history, and social action.

E148
Chair: Janine Butler, East Carolina University
Speakers: Diana Epelbaum, Marymount Manhattan College, "The
Eighteenth-Century Woman Naturalist and the Student Writer: A
Cultural Historicist Approach to Rhetorical Genre Studies in the
Classroom"
Shannon Fanning, Iowa State University, Ames, "Cultivating a New
Understanding of Visuals in the Classroom: Teaching Visual Genres as
Social Action"
Sarah Hirsch, University of California, Santa Barbara, "Decoding the 'X':
The Intersection of Visual Rhetoric and Materiality in Post-Katrina
New Orleans"
Jason Kalin, DePaul University, "Writing with Time: Cultivating Temporal
Visualities in Mobile Composition"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

K.12	 Soundwriting Pedagogies: Teaching Audio and
Cultivating Community

Roundtable participants discuss their experiences teaching with audio and
invite others to join the community.

Portland Ballroom 251
Chair: Michael Faris, Texas Tech University
Speakers: Jennifer Buckner, Gardner Webb University
Jeremy Cushman, Western Washington University
Courtney Danforth, College of Southern Nevada
Shannon Kelly, Western Washington University
Ben McCorkle, The Ohio State University at Marion
Kyle D. Stedman, Rockford University
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.13	 Implications for Embodied Rhetoric and Civic
Engagement

Examines the relationship between embodiment and spatial rhetorics.

A109
Chair: John Pell, Whitworth University

304

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 304

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers: Khem Aryal, Syracuse University, "Writing Civic: Engaged
Writer, Engaged Citizen"
Joshua Barsczewski, University of Massachusetts, "Public Bodies:
Examining the Rhetorical Spaces of LGBT Activism"
Kevin Mahoney, Kutztown University, "Centers for Struggle: Building
Independent Spaces for Political Literacies"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.14	 Transfer's Evolution: Changing Our Terms, Interrogating
Our Methodologies for Studying Transfer
A roundtable discussion about the changing terms for naming and
methodologies for researching transfer.

Portland Ballroom 258
Chair: Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, Texas
Speakers: Anis Bawarshi, University of Washington, Seattle
Dan Fraizer, Springfield College, MA
Kali Mobley, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Mary Jo Reiff, University of Kansas, Lawrence
Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Alisa Russell, University of Kansas, Lawrence
7-Institutional and Professional

K.15	 Learning First: Creating Sustainable Change through
K–12/University Writing and Assessment Partnerships

Panelists and respondent describe and analyze several school-university
writing and assessment partnerships designed to put learning first.

C124
Chair: Diane Kelly-Riley, University of Idaho, Moscow
Speakers: Bob Broad, Illinois State University, Normal, "When Good
Ideas Go Unsustained"
Chris Gallagher, Northeastern University, Boston, "Learning on
Three Legs: A Model for Sustainable K–12/University/Community
Partnerships"
Diane Kelly-Riley, University of Idaho, Moscow, "Livin' in Our Own
Private Idaho: Sustaining School-University Partnerships in a State
Public Education System Driven by Privatized Interests"
Respondent: Christine Farris, Indiana University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 305

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 305

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

K.16	 Multiple Perspectives in New Materialist Rhetorics

Panelist discuss the affordances of new materialist rhetorics in a variety of
venues.

F151
Chair: Kristi Girdharry, Johnson & Wales University
Speakers: Devon Cook, Purdue University, "Letterpress Typesetting as a
Composition Practice: A New Materialist Approach"
Benjamin Harley, University of South Carolina, "Cultivating an Ecological
Public"
Alex Parrish, James Madison University, "Humans, Dolphins, and Other
People: Cultivating an Expansive View of Rhetorical Theory and
Practice"
13-Writing Programs

K.17	 Emergent Transfer in Action: Researching Transfer of
Learning in Writing Centers

This panel will engage attendees in extended conversation to analyze
potential moments of transfer in writing center consultations.

E145
Speakers: R. Mark Hall, University of Central Florida
Bradley Hughes, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Rebecca Nowacek, Marquette University
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.18	 Aurality in the Composition Classroom

Aural texts, alongside visual, digital, and written texts, improve analysis,
research, and reflection in the composition classroom.

B114
Chair: Jacqueline (Lyn) Megow, Eastern Washington University,
"Aurality and Reflection: A Multimodal Statement of Writing
Philosophy"
Speakers: Kate Peterson, Eastern Washington University, "Podcast as
Pedagogy: Authorial Agency in the Research Process"
Liz Rognes, Eastern Washington University, "'Listening In' and Rhetorical
Analysis of Audio Texts"

306

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 306

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

K.19	 Confluence and Navigation: Graduate Students, Faculty,
and Disciplinary Currents

We will present research on graduate writing from two research-intensive
universities, survey support strategies, and invite discussion.

E147
Chair: Laura Brady, West Virginia University
Speakers: Laura Brady, West Virginia University
Susan Lawrence, George Mason University
Nathalie Singh-Corcoran, West Virginia University
Terry Zawacki, George Mason University
9-Professional and Technical Writing

K.20	 Creative Collaborations: Cultivating New Voices from the
Undergraduate Legal Writing Community
Emphasizing creativity and collaboration, panelists cultivate a space for
legal writing in undergraduate English curricula.

E142
Chair: Brian Larson, Georgia Institute of Technology
Speakers: Antonio Elefano, University of Southern California, "And
Justice for All: What Non-Lawyers Can Learn from Legal Writing"
Lindsay Head, Louisiana State University, "Initial Implementation:
Grading Contracts and Course Design in Undergraduate Legal Writing"
Lisa-Jane Klotz, University of California, Davis, "Opening Arguments:
Introducing Legal Discourse to Pre-Law Students"
Phil Mink, University of Delaware, "The Rhetoric of the Law: Teaching
Pre-Law Students to Write Like Judges"
Willie Schatz, University of Maryland, "Torts and Courts for Undergrads"
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.21	 Naming the Tools: The Pedagogy and Practice of
Community-Based Writing and Research

This panel theorizes rhetorical tools for the public work of rhetoric when
that work is most needed and most vexed.

C121
Speakers: Jennifer Clifton, University of Texas at El Paso, "Phronesis for
Contemporary Public Life: Toward an Integrated Model of Rhetorical
Expertise and Rhetorical Wisdom"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 307

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 307

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Elenore Long, Arizona State University, Phoenix, "Detangling
Empowerment Knots: Configuring Knowledge Work to Support Joint
Discovery and Change"
Deborah Mutnick, Long Island University, NY, "Naming the Rhetorical
Tools for Building Democracy in Contested Urban Spaces"
Christopher Wilkey, Northern Kentucky University, "Fighting
Gentrification through Community Literacy: Democracy as Taking the
Side of the Oppressed"
6-Information Technologies

K.22	 Changing Course: Creating an Interactive iBook for
First-Year Composition

Panelists reflect on how they reconceptualized their roles and work as
compositionists in the process of creating an interactive FYC iBook.

D138
Chair: Deborah Bertsch, Columbus State Community College, OH
Speakers: Deborah Bertsch, Columbus State Community College, OH,
"Cultivating Partnerships: Collaborating with Apple Education,
Instructional Designers, Librarians, Dual-Credit Stakeholders, and
Students"
Don Bruce, Columbus State Community College, "Creating Pedagogy:
Re-seeing Widgets, Learning Objects, and the Mobile Student"
Rebecca Fleming, Columbus State Community College,
"(Re)Conceptualizing Academic Labor: Working as Developers,
Reviewers, Advocates, and Entrepreneurs"
Nicholas Lakostik, Columbus State Community College, "Creating
Pedagogy: Re-seeing Widgets, Learning Objects, and the Mobile
Student"
5-History

K.23	 Interrogating History in the Interspaces: Rhetoric,
Composition, and Metadata Tools

This panel critically examines various approaches to and challenges of re/
creating composition's histories through metadata tools.

D136
Chair: Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University
Speakers: Tarez Samra Graban, Florida State University, "Intellectual
Encounters as Digital Epistemology"
Gerald Jackson, University of South Carolina, Columbia, "Genealogies as
Performative Works"
Jenna Morton-Aiken, University of Rhode Island, "Code as a Form of
Control"
Respondent: Ryan Skinnell, San Jose State University

308

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 308

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

5-History

K.24	 Situated Histories: Stories, Sites, Maps, and Buildings

Presenters apply theories of space, place, and work to excavate sites of
writing and rhetorical instruction.

B110
Chair: Lauren Cagle, University of Kentucky
Speakers: Brian Fehler, Texas Woman's University, "On the Map:
Geographic Information Systems, Circumference Criticism, and
Changes of P(l)ace"
David Hudson, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Cultivating Identities
within Bureaucratic Culture: The Chicago Commons and Negotiating
Civil Service as a Term of Work for Rhetorical Education"
Carl Schlachte, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Material
Inertia: The Sedimented Spatial Rhetoric of Public School Buildings"
Jennifer Warfel Juszkiewicz, Indiana University-Bloomington, "'I
remember the classroom where . . .': The Spatial Stories We Tell
Ourselves"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

K.25	 Cultivating Inclusion: Invitational Approaches to
Rhetorical Instruction

Speakers discuss their use of intersectional/invitational approaches to
foster inclusive spaces in the classroom and beyond.

C120
Chair: Iris Ruiz, University of California-Merced
Speakers: Christina Cedillo, University of Houston-Clear Lake,
"Accessibility and/as Eloquence: An Intersectional Approach to
Composition"
Dagmar Scharold, University of Houston-Downtown, "Relationality and
Intersectionality in the Online Advanced Writing Classroom"
Nancy Small, University of Wyoming, "Professor at the Crossroads:
Intercultural Communication and the International Branch Campus"
Shui-yin Sharon Yam, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Rhetoric
without Persuasion: Enacting Invitational Rhetoric in the Classroom"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.26	 Securing Full Membership for Non-Tenure-Track Writing
Faculty
Panelists describe ways of improving institutional, disciplinary, and
professional participation for NTT writing teachers.

B112
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 309

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 309

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Chair: Taylor Spining, California State University, Los Angeles
Speakers: Ann Dean, University of Massachusetts, Lowell, "Perceptions
of (the Lack of) Governance among Adjunct Faculty: Changing the
Curriculum at a Comprehensive University"
Brendan Hawkins, Appalachian State University, "Cultivating Change in
Contingent Spaces: Pictures of Adjunct Efficacy"
Julie Karaus, Appalachian State University, "Cultivating Change in
Contingent Spaces: Pictures of Adjunct Efficacy"
Michael McCamley, University of Delaware, "Surveying the Landscape of
Permanent Non-Tenure-Track Faculty"
Paulette Stevenson, Arizona State University, "Cultivating the Capacity to
Act: A Narrative Case Study of ASU against 5/5"
6-Information Technologies

K.27	 Inhabiting and Subverting Online Spaces

Blogs, games, and discussion forums are sites that invite styles of
participation that can generate social change. Panelists will critique and
explore the possibilities.

B111
Chair: Roger Austin, Georgia State University, Atlanta
Speakers: Katelyn Burton, Fashion Institute of Technology (SUNY),
"Digital Identity as a Dynamic Event"
Peter Carrillo, University of Kansas, "Creating Change in Writing
Communities: The Remediation of Academic Features in the Gaming
Wiki"
Haeyoung Lee, University of Oklahoma, "Cultivating Critical
Participation across Transmedia Platforms through Subversive Play"
Andrew Moos, University of Kansas, "Creating Change in Writing
Communities: The Remediation of Academic Features in the Gaming
Wiki"
Kris Purzycki, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, "Communities of
Interactivism: Procedural Fluency and the Rhetoric of Digital Public
Spaces"
2-Basic Writing

K.28	 "But We've Always Done It This Way": Changing
Developmental Curriculum and Faculty Perceptions

This panel discusses the process of implementing corequisite remediation
and integrating reading and writing.

D137
Speakers: Sarah Alderfer, Vincennes University, "Why Coreqs?"
Jesse Coomer, Vincennes University, "Planning for Teamwork"
Matt Norman, Vincennes University, "Why Coreqs?"

310

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 310

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Jamie Singleton, Vincennes University, "Consolidating the Reading and
Writing Curricula"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.29	 Go Your Own Way: Gateways and Barriers to Student
Writer Agencies

This session explores the limits and possibilities of source use and misuse
and threshold concepts.

D132
Chair: Douglas Hall, Georgia State University
Speakers: Jonathan Cook, Durham Technical Community College,
"Beyond Patchwriting: Using Experience and Reflection to Help
Students Avoid Plagiarism as They Develop an Academic Voice"
Dawn Formo, California State University San Marcos, "Writing Prompts
and Threshold Concepts: Tending (to) Our Rhetorical Tools"
Alexis Ramsey, Eckerd College, "Are Citations Really Necessary in the
Age of Google?"
Kimberly Robinson Neary, Los Angeles City College, "Writing Prompts
and Threshold Concepts: Tending (to) Our Rhetorical Tools"
12-Theory

K.30	 Terminology That Matters: A Grammar for Discussing
Grammar

This panel reviews the grammar/writing debate and discusses the implications
of modern genre approaches to grammar for writing instruction.

C123
Speakers: Kendra Andrews, North Carolina State University, "Grammar
and Writing Instruction: A Brief History of Definition and Debate"
Abby Dobs, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, "Workshopping
with Grammar: A Reflection on What Can Happen When Students
Focus on Grammar"
Ronald Lunsford, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, "Returning
Grammar to Its Proper Place in the Trivium"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

K.31	 Ethics of Care and the Teaching of Technical
Communication

Four perspectives on feminist approaches to health communication.

C122
Chair: Celeste Del Russo, Rowan University
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 311

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 311

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers: Amy Flick, Kent State University, "Cookers and Brick Milk:
Literate Practices of Harm Reduction Workers"
Russell Kirkscey, Texas Tech University, "Bioethical Communication:
Shared Decision Making and Critical Empathic Rhetoric"
Hill Taylor, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, "Reflective
Journaling for Development of Cultural Humility in Nursing Students"
Katie Walkup, University of South Florida, "Teaching Expertise in Patient
Interactions: Rhetorical Strategies in Health Communication"
12-Theory

K.32	 Women Talking Back: The Artist, the Student Writer, and
the Memoirist

Using the works of bell hooks, panelists explore the ways in which artists,
student writers, and memoirists speak back to oppressive forces.

B118
Speakers: Sarah Allen, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa
Daphne Desser, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa
Brittney Holt, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

K.33	 More of the Message: Extending Multimodality across
Composition Stages

This session advocates for aurality in multimodal processes, transferable
visual argument, and tutor training for multimedia compositions.

A107
Speakers: Jeffrey Breitenfeldt, Leeward Community College, "Cultivating
Expertise from 'Wicked Problems': Strategies for Using Visual
Argument and Design to Improve Student Writing"
Travis Margoni, Yakima Valley College, "Composing McLuhan's Ear
World of Relationships in the Basic Writing Classroom"
Laura May, Yakima Valley College, "Trail Guides on the Multimodal
Landscape: New Tutor Training for New Media"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.34	 Large Sections, Standardized Curricula, and Faith
Integration: Cultivating Effective Writing Pedagogy in a
Nontraditional University Model
This panel will discuss ways of teaching within a very nontraditional
model for composition instruction.

B113

312

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 312

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers: Andrea Alden, Grand Canyon University, "Making It Work:
Effective Pedagogy in a Model That Challenges the Guidelines of the
Discipline"
Diane Goodman, Grand Canyon University, "Reframing Pedagogical
Perspectives: Teaching Literature in a Predetermined Curriculum at a
Christian College"
Maria Zafonte, Grand Canyon University, "Cultivating Capacity by
Building Blended"
10-Research

K.35	 Composting Stories to Cultivate Learning: Lessons from
Long-Term Qualitative Research
This interactive, audiovisual session explores how long-term, interviewbased research can drive pedagogical and programmatic action.

D133
Speakers: Bump Halbritter, Michigan State University, "Recycling
Processes from Products"
Julie Lindquist, Michigan State University, "Small Plot, Big Garden"
Todd Taylor, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, "Talk about the
Passion"
10-Research

K.36	 Contexts and Conditions for Student Success

Panelists address individual, programmatic, and institutional contexts that
shape student learning in writing research.

C125
Chair: Judy Holiday, University of LaVerne
Speakers: Ed Jones, Seton Hall, "Race, Class, Self-Beliefs, and
Achievement at Two Different Four-Year Universities"
Elizabeth Kleinfeld, Metropolitan State University of Denver, "Student
Source Citations in Papers and Presentations: What We Tell Them,
What They Do, and Why We Should Be Cultivating Capacity for
Format as Process"
Liv Marken, University of Saskatchewan, "Libraries and Writing Centres
in Collaboration: Educative and Practical Support for Undergraduate
Research Publishing"
Kathryn Valentine, San Diego State University, "Writing Student and
Instructor Perceptions of Class Size: Preliminary Findings from a
Qualitative Study"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 313

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 313

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.37	 What's New in WAW Is WA(M)W! Fostering Adaptive
Transfer through Writing about Multilingual Writing
Invites consideration of Writing about Multilingual Writing as an
innovative approach to language difference in transfer studies.

B115
Speakers: Lindsey Ives, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University
Katherine Silvester, Indiana University, Bloomington
Emily Simnitt, University of Oregon
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.38	 What's the Matter Here?

This session explores what happens when we revisit tried-and-true
pedagogies.

D134
Chair: Steven Lessner, Northern Virginia Community College, Annandale
Speakers: Gordon Mantler, George Washington University, "Beyond
Celebration: Student Publications in Writing Pedagogy"
Kristin Messuri, Texas Tech University, "The Efficacy of Academic
Writing Groups"
Jeff Sommers, West Chester University, "Problematizing Reflection:
Conflicted Motives in the Writer's Memo"
Zac Wendler, Ferris State University, "Student Engagement from the
Syllabus Up"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.39	 Student Perceptions of Placement and Testing:
Implications for Academic Identity and Success

Explores how students' experiences with high-stakes testing may shape
their own assessments of their academic abilities and potential.

A106
Chair: Ann Penrose, North Carolina State University
Speakers: Christine Barba, North Carolina State University, "Student
Perceptions of Standardized Assessment and the SAT"
Melody Owens, North Carolina State University, "Placement and Testing:
Student Experience as the Decision Makers"
Grace Taylor, North Carolina State University, "Exploring Effects of
Placement on Latino/a Student Identity and Writing Self-Efficacy"

314

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 314

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

K.40	 Building Institutional Support for WAC/WID

Panelists share opportunities to foreground necessity of WAC/WID
programs.

F152
Chair: Carolyn Ostrander, Syracuse University
Speakers: Rodney Herring, University of Colorado Denver, "Seeding a
WAC Initiative through a Faculty Learning Community"
Siskanna Naynaha, California State University, Dominguez Hills,
"WAC/WID Programs for Dangerous Times"
Stacey Sheriff, Colby College, "Threshold Concepts and WID Faculty
Development"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.41	 Converging Compositions: Teaching Dissoi-Polylogoi in
the Networked Classroom
Polymodal Pedagogy uses converging technologies to expand binary
thinking and reveal traditionally silenced voices and viewpoints.

A105
Speakers: Daniel Frank, Clemson RCID, "Moving from 'Writing' to
'Playing, Performing, and Synthesizing:' Polymodal Spaces in FirstYear Composition Classrooms"
Susan Garza, Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi, "Moving from
'Voice' to 'Text': Encouraging Writers to Write More Like They Talk"
Eda Ozyesilpinar, Clemson University, "Moving from 'One and Two' to
'Thirds': Changing the Western Rhetorical Space of Argumentation in
the First-Year Composition Classroom"
10-Research

K.42	 Learning Information Literacy Across the Curriculum
(LILAC): Discussing Results from a CCCC Research
Initiative Project

This panel offers results of the LILAC study with analysis of students'
information-seeking behaviors, pedagogical challenges, and solutions.

D135
Chair: Lilian Mina, Auburn University at Montgomery
Speakers: Jeanne Bohannon, Kennesaw State University
Jinrong Li, Georgia Southern University
Janice Walker, Georgia Southern University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 315

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 315

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

12-Theory

K.43	 Cultivating a Field: Asian American Rhetoric and Its
Transformative Possibilities

This panel examines how Asian American rhetoric can trans/form the
disciplinary knowledge and history of rhetoric and composition studies.

B119
Speakers: Linh Dich, Miami University, "Tracing Vietnamese and
American Transnational Relationships: Rap and Tattoos as Protest"
Sanjay Kumar, Jawaharlal Nehru University, "Recasting Rhetoric of South
Asia: Dalit, Democracy, and Citizenship"
LuMing Mao, Miami University, "In the Present and Importantly Present:
Advancing Temporality for Asian American Rhetoric"
Terese Guinsatao Monberg, Michigan State University, "Beyond
Representation: Temporal, Spatial, and Transnational Cultivations of
Asian/American Rhetoric"
Iswari Pandey, California State University, Northridge, "Recasting
Rhetoric of South Asia: Dalit, Democracy, and Citizenship"
Morris Young, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Beyond
Representation: Temporal, Spatial, and Transnational Cultivations of
Asian American Rhetoric"
8-Language

K.44	 Latin@s in Dual-Credit Courses: Living Realities,
Cultivating Pedagogies

The lived realities of ethnic minorities and their language practices need to
dictate the pedagogies employed in a dual-credit course.

E141
Speakers: Jose Cano, Brownsville Independent School District,
"Sketching a Picture: Literate/Language Practices"
Selina Gilman, Pace High School, "Homosociality in the Writing Class:
The Power of Acceptance in First-Year Composition Courses"
Stacey Gonzalez, Lasara Independent School District, "Personal
Narratives: Latin@s' Identities as Writers from Moya's Social
Location"
7-Institutional and Professional

K.45	 "A Picture of the Future/And You're Not in It": Letting Go
without Getting Lost

Change is necessary but difficult for outgoing, isolated WPAs and WCDs.
This session discusses strategies for moving on well.

D139

316

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 316

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Speakers: Robert Koch, University of North Alabama, "There and Back
Again, or When in Doubt, Follow Your Nose"
William Macauley, University of Nevada, Reno, "The Writing Center
Dude, Then Master"
Nicholas Mauriello, University of North Alabama, "Owning the Past to
Change the Future"
13-Writing Programs

K.46	 Virtuous Writing Circles: Collaborative Curricular
Development from the WAC Program to the WID STEM
Classroom and Back Again

Structured, facilitated peer review groups cultivate grounds for sustained
curricular collaboration between WID faculty and WAC programs.

F150
Speakers: Rebecca Concepcion, Pacific University, "The Impact on
Classroom Curriculum"
Tereza Joy Kramer, Saint Mary's College of California, "Purpose and
Development of Writing Circles"
Krista Varela, Saint Mary's College of California, "Design Thinking That
Begins with the WAC Program"
Joe Zeccardi, Saint Mary's College of California, "Ultimate Outcome:
Collaborative Design by WAC Program and WID Faculty"
12-Theory

K.47	 Cultivating 21st-Century Rhetorical Practices: Exploring
Ecologies, Networks, and Assemblage
Panel explores the differences among ecology, networking, and
assemblage within rhet/comp theory, calling attention to material power.

B116
Chair: Rachel Riedner, George Washington University
Speakers: Rebecca Dingo, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Transnational Networked Pedagogies"
Kelin Loe, University of Massachusetts Amherst, "Cultivating Rhetorical
Ecologies"
Jennifer Nish, American University of Beirut, Lebanon, "Cultivating
Activism"
Tara Pauliny, John Jay College, "Ecological Networking"
Thomas J Pickerington, University of Massachusetts Amherst,
"Multicultural Ecologies and Networks of Capital"
Jennifer Wingard, University of Houston, "Cultivating Consciousness
through #BlackLivesMatter"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 317

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 317

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

12-Theory

K.48	 Motherhood and Rhetorical Choice: Perspectives
on Women's Identification outside of and around
Motherhood

Panelists analyze the rhetorical pressures of motherhood and how women
articulate themselves in resistance to these pressures.

D140
Chair: Robert Watkins, Idaho State University
Speakers: Jennifer Enoch, Florida State University, Tallahassee, "'Do Not
Forget His Name': Strategies of Deference and Assertion in Women's
Everyday Writing"
Ella Raynor, University of Central Florida, "Articulating Feminist Cultural
Knowledge: Resistance, Agency, and Discursive Space"
Courtney Wooten, Stephen F. Austin State University, "'Just an Aunt':
Reconstructing the Identities of Childless-by-Choice Women"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

K.49	 Multimodal Moves in the Writing Classroom

This panel explores the integration of multimodal design into writing
classrooms and the relationship between hybrid and f2f learning.

C126
Speakers: Paige Arrington, Georgia State University, "Bridging Hybrid
and F2F Composition Classrooms via Digital Pedagogy"
Fia Christina Borjeson, Chalmers University of Technology,
"Contextualized Writing Pedagogy for Genre Awareness in Higher
Education: Challenges and Opportunities in STEM Education, WAC,
and WID"
Carl Johan Carlsson, Chalmers University of Technology, "Contextualized
Writing Pedagogy for Genre Awareness in Higher Education:
Challenges and Opportunities in STEM Education, WAC, and WID"
Phillip Goodwin, University of Nevada, Reno, "Seeing the Unseen:
Cultivating Lenses of Engagement through Images and Multimodality"
Raffaella Negretti, Chalmers Technical University, "Contextualized
Writing Pedagogy for Genre Awareness in Higher Education:
Challenges and Opportunities in STEM Education, WAC, and WID"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

K.50	 Multimodal Composition

Presenters provide strategies for making technology work for students'
writing.

A104

318

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 318

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 3:30–4:45 p.m.

Chair: Tong Zhang, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
Speakers: Matthew Halm, North Carolina State University, "College
Composition Is Already Multimodal"
Catherine Latterell, Penn State Altoona, "Breakdown, Sample, Play:
Where Remix Is Heading Next"
Aiko Nagabuchi, Eastern Washington University, "Immersion of
Multimodal Group Writing in First-Year College Composition"
Melissa Toomey, University of Cincinnati, "You've Got to Download
This! Cultivating Substantive Student Work through an Examination of
the Rhetorical Capabilities of Apps"
3-Community, Civic & Public

K.51	 Interventions in Neoliberal Literacy Practices: Engaging
with Historical, [Trans]national, and Local Dialogues

The panel suggests interventions in neoliberal literacies by engaging with
what we learn from historical, transnational, and local spaces.

E144
Speakers: Chowaing Chagra Belekeh, University of Texas at El Paso,
"Privatization of Water in Cameroon: Rural Literacy Lens"
Sarah Fish, University of Houston, "Historical Interventions in 'Critical
Needs' Literacy"
Eddie Nevarez, University of Texas at El Paso, "Aesthetic Literacy in the
Borderland"
12-Theory

K.52	 The Nonrational/Nonspeaking Subject: A DisabilityStudies Analysis through Narrative, Qualitative Research,
and Philosophical Inquiry

We investigate the rhetoricity and materiality of "the human" if the subject
does not speak, has dementia, loses memory, or is indentured.

F149
Chair: Margaret Price, The Ohio State University
Speakers: Hailee Gibbons, University of Illinois at Chicago, "Using
'Demented Time' to Cultivate Access and Relationships with People
with Mental Disabilities"
Sidney Jones, The Ohio State University, "Breaking the Black Female
Body Down: Our Nig and Articulating Disability"
Elisabeth Miller, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Aphasia and the
Need to Establish Rhetoricity"
Margaret Price, The Ohio State University, "'Are They Still in There?': A
Qualitative and Material Analysis of Memory Loss and the In/human"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 319

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 319

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

AWARDS PRESENTATIONS
CCCC Awards/Recognition Reception
Portland Ballroom 252 & 253
5:00 p.m.–6:30 p.m.
Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Program Chair/CCCC Associate Chair, Yakima
  Valley College, WA

At this reception we announce the recipients of the 2017 Outstanding Book Award,
the James Berlin Memorial Outstanding Dissertation Award, the Braddock Award,
the award for best article in TETYC, and others. Past CCCC Chairs, distinguished
guests, and international participants will also be recognized. A light reception follows. Please take the time to come celebrate with your colleagues.

OUTSTANDING BOOK AWARD
This award is presented to the author(s) or editor(s) of a book making an outstanding
contribution to composition and communication studies. Books are evaluated for
scholarship or research and for applicability to the study and teaching of composition
and communication.

Outstanding Book Award Committee
Chair:





Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Steven Alvarez, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Russell Kirkscey, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Garrett Nichols, Bridgewater State University, MA
Rebecca Rickly, Texas Tech University, Lubbock

For a listing of previous Outstanding Book Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/oba.

320

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 320

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

JAMES BERLIN MEMORIAL OUTSTANDING
DISSERTATION AWARD
Renamed to honor James Berlin, this award recognizes a graduate whose dissertation
improves the educational process through research or scholarly inquiry or adds to the
body of knowledge in composition studies.

Berlin Outstanding Dissertation Award Committee
Chair:





Kristen Moore, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Casey Boyle, University of Texas at Austin
Earnest Cox, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Justin Hodgson, Indiana University, Bloomington
Laurie Pinkert, University of Central Florida, Orlando

For a listing of previous Berlin Outstanding Dissertation Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/berlin.

THE RICHARD BRADDOCK AWARD
The Richard Braddock Award is presented to the author of the outstanding article
on writing or the teaching of writing in the CCCC journal, College Composition
and Communication, during the year ending December 31 before the annual CCCC
spring convention. The award was created to honor the memory of Richard Braddock, University of Iowa. Richard Braddock was an extraordinary person and teacher who touched the lives of many people in ways that this special award established
in his name can only suggest.

Braddock Award Committee
Chair:





Jenny Rice, University of Kentucky, Lexington
Dylan Dryer, University of Maine, Orono
David Gold, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Natasha Jones, University of Central Florida, Orlando
Shyam Sharma, Stony Brook University, NY

For a listing of previous Braddock Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/braddock.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 321

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 321

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

OUTSTANDING DISSERTATION AWARD IN
TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION
This award recognizes a dissertation in technical communication whose research is
original, makes a contribution to the field, uses a sound methodological approach,
demonstrates awareness of the existing research in the area studied, and demonstrates an overall high quality of writing.

Outstanding Dissertation Award in Technical Communication
Committee
Chair:





Derek Ross, Auburn University, AL
Kelli Cargile-Cook, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Karen Kuralt, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Ben Lauren, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Russell Willerton, Boise State University, ID

For a listing of previous Outstanding Dissertation Award in Technical Communication winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/techcommdissertation.

TECHNICAL and scientific COMMUNICATION
awards
This award recognizes outstanding books and articles in technical and scientific communication in six categories: Best Book, Best Original Collection of Essays, Best
Article Reporting Qualitative or Quantitative Research, Best Article Reporting Historical Research or Textual Studies, Best Article on Philosophy or Theory, and Best
Article on Pedagogy or Curriculum.

Technical and Scientific Communication Awards Committee
Chair:





Lisa Meloncon, University of Cincinnati, OH
Sarah Austin, United States Air Force Academy, CO
Kenneth Baake, Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Liza Potts, Michigan State University, East Lansing
Glen Southergill, Montana Tech, Butte

For a listing of previous Technical and Scientific Communication Award winners,
please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/techsci.

322

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 322

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

WRITING PROGRAM CERTIFICATE OF EXCELLENCE
This award program, established in 2004, honors up to 20 writing programs a year. 
Programs must successfully demonstrate that their program meets the following criteria: it imaginatively addresses the needs and opportunities of its students, instructors, and locale; offers exemplary ongoing professional development for faculty of
all ranks, including adjunct/contingent faculty; treats contingent faculty respectfully,
humanely, and professionally; uses current best practices in the field; uses effective,
ongoing assessment and placement procedures; models diversity and/or serves diverse communities; has appropriate class size; and has an administrator (chair, director, coordinator, etc.) with academic credentials in writing.

Writing Program Certificate of Excellence Committee
Chair:





Will Hochman, Southern Connecticut State University, New Haven
Tom Fox, National Writing Project
Patricia Gillikin, University of New Mexico-Valencia
Brian Ray, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Rich Rice, Texas Tech University, Lubbock

For a listing of previous Writing Program Certificate of Excellence winners, please
visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/writingprogramcert.

CCCC TRIBAL COLLEGE FACULTY FELLOWSHIP
The program offers financial aid, two travel grants of $1,250 each, to selected faculty members currently working at tribally controlled colleges to attend the CCCC
Conference. With this fellowship, CCCC hopes to create new opportunities for tribal
college faculty members to become involved in CCCC and for CCCC to carry out
its mission of serving as a truly representative national advocate for language and
literacy education.

Tribal College Faculty Fellowship Committee
Chair: 	 Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania

Andrea Riley Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH

Cristine Soliz, Fort Valley State University, GA
For a listing of previous Tribal College Faculty Fellowship winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/tribalcollegefellow.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 323

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 323

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2016–2017 CCCC Research Initiative
Recipients
"Preparing the 'New Mainstream' for College and Career: Language, Literacy, and
Postsecondary Pathways"
  George C. Bunch, University of California, Santa Cruz
"Developing Effective Online Writing Programs: A Longitudinal Case Study"
  Heidi Skurat Harris, Karen M. Kuralt, and George H. Jensen, University of
  Arkansas at Little Rock
"Understanding Genre Learning and Success in an Innovative Interdisciplinary
Social Change Pilot Program"
  Rebecca Pope-Ruark, Elon University
"Hobson City Matters #blackgirls4change"
  Michelle Bachelor Robinson, Margaret Holloway, and Candace Chambers,
  University of Alabama, and Khirsten Echols, University of Louisville
"Social Media in the Composition Classroom"
  Stephanie Vie, University of Central Florida
"Writing's Potential to Heal: A Design-Based Study of a Body-Focused Writing
Workshop"
  Kate Vieira, University of Wisconsin-Madison, and Kathleen Conklin, PilateSpa
  International
"The Writing Passport Project: Extending the Teaching for Transfer Writing
Curriculum into Nine Sites, Multiple Courses, and Writing Teacher Education"
  Kathleen Blake Yancey, Florida State University; Howard Tinberg, Bristol
  Community College; Sonja L. Andrus, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash
  College; Tonya Ritola, University of California Santa Cruz; Sharon Mitchler,
  Centralia College; Kara Taczak, University of Denver; Liane Robertson,
  William Paterson University of New Jersey; Matthew Davis, University of
  Massachusetts Boston; and Joyce R. Walker, Illinois State University

324

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 324

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

2016–2017 CCCC Emergent Research/er
Award Recipients
"Intranationalism: Conceptualizing New Intersections between US-Based Higher
Education Models and Students in Middle East and North African Nations"
  James P. Austin, Fort Hays State University
"Becoming an Insider: Exploring the Development of Discursive Identity in
Science by Women of Color in an Undergraduate Research Program"
  Heather Falconer, Northeastern University
"Remediating Culture: A Rhetorical History of the Carlisle Indian Industrial School"
  Sarah Klotz, Butte College
"Toward Data-Driven Support for Graduate and Faculty Writers: Two InterInformative Research Studies"
  Shannon Madden and Sandra L. Tarabochia, University of Rhode Island
"'Raising Hell': African American Literacy Instruction in the Jim Crow South"
  Sue Mendelsohn, Columbia University
"Distant Readings of Disciplinarity: Knowing and Doing in Composition/Rhetoric
Dissertations"
  Benjamin Miller, University of Pittsburgh
"Reports of Agency: Retrieving Indigenous Professional Communication in Indian
Bureau Agency Documents, 1902–1916"
  Julianne Newmark, University of New Mexico
"Looking and Listening for Multiple Literacies and Transfer through Video in the
Writing Classroom"
  Crystal VanKooten, Oakland University
"Considering the Context: A Study of Early College and College in the High
School Programs"
  Erin Wecker, University of Montana, and Patricia Wilde, Washington State
  University, Tri-Cities

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 325

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 325

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC advancement of knowledge award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances writing studies.

Advancement of Knowledge Committee
Chair: 	 Barbara L'Eplattenier, University of Arkansas at Little Rock

Laurie Gries, University of Colorado Boulder

Mark McBeth, John Jay College of Criminal Justice, New York, NY
For a listing of previous Advancement of Knowledge Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/advknowledge.

CCCC research impact award
Established in 2011, this award is presented annually for the empirical research publication in the previous two years that most advances the mission of the organization
or the needs of the profession.

Research Impact Committee
Chair: 	 Tiane Donahue, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH

Patricia Roberts-Miller, University of Texas at Austin

Michael Salvo, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
For a listing of previous Research Impact Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/researchimpact.

CCCC luiz antonio marcuschi travel awards
Established in 2011, this award provides two $1,000 travel reimbursement awards
to scholars from Mexico or Central or South America who have papers accepted for
presentation at the CCCC Convention. Selection of the winners is made by the CCCC
Program Chair and a panel of judges selected from the Stage II program reviewers.
For a listing of previous Luiz Antonio Marcuschi Travel Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/marcuschi.

326

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 326

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

CCCC Gloria anzaldúa rhetorician award
Established in 2013, this award supports graduate students or first-time presenters
whose work participates in the making of meaning out of sexual and gender minority
experiences with up to three $750 awards for travel to the CCCC Convention.

Gloria Anzaldúa Rhetorician Award—2017 Recipients
Gavin P. Johnson, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Leida K. Mae, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Laura Tetreault, University of Louisville, KY

Gloria Anzaldúa Rhetorician Award Committee
Chair:





Donnie Johnson Sackey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Alexandra Cavallaro, Subcommittee Chair, California State University,
  San Bernardino
Ayde Enriquez-Loya, California State University, Chico
Conā Marshall, Lebanon Valley College, Annville, PA
Kenton Wilcox, Northwest Missouri State University, Maryville

For a listing of previous Gloria Anzaldúa Rhetorician Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/anzaldua.

cccc lavender rhetorics award for
excellence in queer scholarship
Established in 2013, this award is presented annually to three works (one book, one
article, and one dissertation) published within the past two years that best make queer
interventions into the study of composition and rhetoric.

Lavender Rhetorics Award for Excellence in Queer Scholarship
Committee
Chair:






Donnie Johnson Sackey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
R. Joseph Rodríguez, Subcommittee Chair, University of Texas at El
  Paso
Chanon Adsanatham, University of Maryland, College Park
Andrew Anastasia, Harper College, Palatine, IL
Katie Livingston, Michigan State University, East Lansing
KJ Rawson, College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, MA

For a listing of previous Lavender Rhetorics Award for Excellence in Queer Scholarship winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/lavender.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 327

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 327

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

cccc stonewall service award
Established in 2013, this award recognizes members of CCCC/NCTE who have consistently worked to improve the experiences of sexual and gender minorities within
the organization and the profession.

Stonewall Service Award Committee
Chair:





Donnie Johnson Sackey, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI
Linh Dich, Subcommittee Chair, Miami University Middletown, OH
T J Geiger II, Baylor University, Waco, TX
Susanmarie Harrington, University of Vermont, Burlington
Don Unger, St. Edward's University, Austin, TX

For a listing of previous Stonewall Service Award winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/cccc/awards/stonewall.

cccc disability in college composition
travel awards
Established in 2014, these awards recognize scholarship dedicated to improving
knowledge about the intersections of disability with composition and rhetoric, the
value of disability as a source of diversity, inclusive practices and the promotion of
access, and the value of disability as a critical lens.

Disability in College Composition Travel Awards—
2017 Recipients
Ellen Birdwell, Alvin Community College, TX
Janine Butler, East Carolina University, Greenville, NC
Rachel Donegan, Middle Tennessee State University, Murfreesboro
Hailee Yoshizaki Gibbons, University of Illinois at Chicago
Denise Y. Hill, Arizona State University, Tempe
Margaret Anne Moore, Fairfield University, CT

Disability in College Composition Travel Awards Committee
Chair:





Tara K. Wood, Rockford University, IL
Dev K. Bose, University of Arizona, Tucson
Christina Cedillo, University of Houston–Clear Lake
Allison Hitt, University of Central Arkansas, Conway
Andrew Lucchesi, Macaulay Honors College, CUNY, New York, NY

328

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 328

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 5:00–6:30 p.m.

the mark reynolds TETYC best article
award
The quarterly journal Teaching English in the Two-Year College selects each calendar year one article for its Best Article of the Year Award. Selection is based on
excellence in five areas: content, style, development/organization, value to readers,
and overall impression.

Best Article Award Committee
Chair: 	 Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

Dianne Fallon, York County Community College, Wells, ME

Rebecca Fleming, Columbus State Community College, OH

Anthony Funari, Johnson County Community College, Overland Park, KS

Jill Kronstadt, Montgomery College, Germantown, MD

Robert Lazaroff, Nassau Community College, Garden City, NY

Marlena Stanford, Salt Lake City Community College, UT

For a listing of previous winners, please visit
http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/tetycaward.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 329

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 329

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

Friday Special Interest Groups
6:30 p.m.–7:30 p.m.
FSIG.01	 American Indian Caucus

	D133
	Chairs: Resa Crane Bizzaro, Indiana University of Pennsylvania
	 Lisa King, University of Tennessee-Knoxville
	 Andrea Riley-Mukavetz, Bowling Green State University, OH

FSIG.02	 Asian/Asian American Caucus

	 Business meeting for the Asian/Asian American Caucus.

	A105
	Chairs: Iswari Pandey, California State University, Northridge
	 Jennifer Sano-Franchini, Virginia Tech

FSIG.03	 Black Caucus

	 Portland Ballroom 254
	Chairs: David E. Kirkland, New York University
	 Elaine Richardson, The Ohio State University, Columbus

FSIG.04	 Latinx Caucus

	 Portland Ballroom 255
	Chairs: Iris Ruiz, University of California-Merced
	 Raúl Sánchez, University of Florida

FSIG.05	 Queer Caucus

	 Portland Ballroom 256
	Chairs: G. Patterson, Ball State University
	 Rebecca Hayes, Michigan State University, East Lansing

FSIG.06	 Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy Special Interest
	Group

	 This will be the annual meeting of the Working-Class Culture and
	 Pedagogy Special Interest Group.

	A108

330

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 330

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

	Speakers: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga
	 William Thelin, University of Akron, OH

FSIG.07	 Martial Arts and Composition-Rhetoric

	 This SIG offers a forum for instructors to explore connections between
	 the practice of a martial art and the work of teaching composition.

	A104
	Speakers: John Guelcher, Ventura College
	 Barry Kroll, Lehigh University
	 Trevor Meyer, University of South Carolina, Columbia

FSIG.08	 Special Interest Group: English Education/Composition
	 Studies Connections
	 This SIG provides a forum for composition specialists, English
	 educators, and others interested in the development of writing teachers.

	C120
	Speakers: Mark Letcher, Lewis University
	 Gretchen Rumohr-Voskuil, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, MI

FSIG.09	 SIG Focused on Issues of Arab, Arab American, Muslim
	Identity
	 All are welcome to this SIG focused on the cultural, religious, and
	 social dimensions of Arab and Muslim issues, international and local.

	B113
	Chairs: Tamara Issak, Syracuse University
	 Lana Oweidat, Goucher College

FSIG.10	 Council for Play and Game Studies

	 The CPGS aims to provide scholars interested in play and game studies
	 with opportunities to network and to share ideas and information.

	B117
Chair: Jennifer deWinter, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, MA
Associate Chair: Danielle Roach, Wright State University
Assistant Chair: Lauren Woolbright, Clemson University
Publicity Coordinator: Kristopher Purzycki, University of WisconsinMilwaukee
Research Coordinator: Emi Stuemke, University of Wisconsin-Stout
Membership Coordinator: Lee Hibbard, Purdue University
Council Archivist: Megan Mize, Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
Graduate Student Representative: Matthew Beale, Old Dominion
University, Norfolk, VA
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 331

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 331

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.11	 Writing about Writing Development Standing Group
	Meeting

	 The WAW Standing Group's meeting conducts the group's business
	 and lets members socialize and coordinate efforts in WAW pedagogy
	 and research.

	C126
	Chair: Doug Downs, Montana State University, Bozeman
	Speaker: Andrea Olinger, University of Louisville

FSIG.12	 Linguistics, Language, and Writing Standing Group
	 Business Meeting

	 This group examines how knowledge of language relates to writing and
	 writing pedagogy.

	B119
	Chairs: Craig Hancock, University at Albany, NY
	 Deborah Rossen-Knill, University of Rochester
	Speakers: Nora Bacon, University of Nebraska at Omaha
	 Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts, Amherst
	 Brian Larson, Georgia Institute of Technology
	 Bruce Maylath, North Dakota State University
	 Lora Mendenhall, Purdue University Northwest
	 Cameron Mozafari, University of Maryland, College Park
	 Delys Snyder, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT
	 Stella Wang, University of Rochester, NY

FSIG.13	 Special Interest Group for Writing and Rhetorics of
	 Code (SIG-WROC)

	 Special interest group for scholars doing research and teaching of the
	 writing and rhetorics of code.

	C125
	Speaker: Chris Lindgren, University of Minnesota–Twin Cities

FSIG.14	 Adult Writers in Diverse Contexts SIG

	 We are all adult learners! The SIG will explore seeing our students in
	 ourselves as we reflect on the lessons of learning as an adult.

	B118
	Chairs: Sonia Feder-Lewis, Saint Mary's University of Minnesota,
	 Twin Cities
	 Barbara Gleason, City College of New York

332

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 332

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.15	 Sound SIG

	 The purpose of the Sound SIG is to support and contribute to the
	 rapidly growing subfield of sound studies in rhetoric and composition.

	B111
	Speakers: Steph Ceraso, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
	 Jonathan Stone, University of Utah

FSIG.16	 Joining the Conversation: A Discussion about Graduate
	 Student Publishing
	 An open roundtable discussion between experienced faculty and
	 graduate students regarding best practices for publishing in graduate
	school.

	A103
	Speakers: Megan Keaton, Florida State University, Tallahassee
	 Matthew Sansbury, Georgia State University
	 Jennifer Warfel Juszkiewicz, Indiana University, Bloomington

FSIG.17	 Creative Writing SIG: Creating a Writing Space

	 We explore ways in which crafting fiction and poetry can reenergize
	 our research and practice as teachers, scholars, and writers.

	C122
	Speakers: Benjamin Miller, University of Pittsburgh
	 Jonathan Udelson, University of Louisville

FSIG.18	 Writing with Former, Current, and Future Members of
	 the Military Standing Group Business Meeting
	 The standing group will continue the momentum it gained from
	 "taking action" in Houston by striving to "create change" in Portland.

	B116
	Speakers: Mariana Grohowski, Indiana University Southeast
	 D. Alexis Hart, Allegheny College

FSIG.19	 Business Meeting of the Standing Group on the Status
	 of Women in the Profession
	 The standing group will meet in compliance with its bylaws to discuss
	 ongoing projects and priorities for the coming year.

	B114
	Chair: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin–Marathon County

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 333

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 333

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.20	 Rhetoric and Religious Traditions Standing Group
	 Business Meeting

	 The Rhetoric and Religious Traditions Standing Group aims to foster
	 scholarship and teaching about religion, rhetoric, and composition.

	B112
	Chairs: Emily Cope, York College of Pennsylvania
	 Michael-John DePalma, Baylor University, Waco, Texas
	 Andrea Efthymiou, Hofstra University
	 TJ Geiger, Baylor University
	 Jeffrey Ringer, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
	 Elizabeth Vander Lei, Calvin College, Grand Rapids, MI

FSIG.21	 The Role of Reading in Composition Studies

	 This SIG is an opportunity to foster reading scholarship and to discuss
	 effective ways to teach reading within the writing classroom.

	A107
	Speakers: Michael Bunn, University of Southern California, Los
	 Angeles
	 Ellen Carillo, University of Connecticut, Storrs-Mansfield
	 Debrah Huffman, Indiana University-Purdue University, Fort Wayne

FSIG.22	 Cultivating and Enriching the Value of Care in Our
	Profession
	 Open to all CCCC attendees, this SIG is a participant-led sharing
	 session on gender, professional labor, and workplace equity.

	A109
	Speakers: Violet Dutcher, Eastern Mennonite University

FSIG.23	 Transnational Composition Standing Group Business
	Meeting
	 Explores transnational relationships in teaching and studying
	 postsecondary writing.

	C124
	Speaker: Brice Nordquist, Syracuse University

334

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 334

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Friday, 6:30–7:30 p.m.

FSIG.24	 Writing and STEM

	 A standing group for anyone interested in the pedagogical and
	 programmatic dimensions of teaching writing in and about the STEM
	disciplines.

	B115
	Speakers: Jonathan Buehl, The Ohio State University
	 William FitzGerald, Rutgers University-Camden
	 Jennifer Mallette, Boise State University
	 Marie Paretti, Virginia Tech

FSIG.25	 Network of Directed Self-Placement—Changing
	 Assessment and Placement Practices

	 This CCCC session facilitated by consultants, with Q & A groups on
	 any aspect of DSP planning and administration.

	B110
	 Workshop Facilitator: Aparna Sinha, California State University,
	 Maritime Academy

FSIG.26	 Independent Writing Departments and Programs
	 Association (IWDPA) Business Meeting

	 The annual business meeting of the Independent Writing Departments
	 and Programs Association, a standing group of CCCC.

	C121
	Chairs: Alice Myatt, University of Mississippi
	 Jeremy Schnieder, Morningside College

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 335

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 335

2/8/17 9:55 AM

336

c183-336-4Cs-2017.indd 336

2/8/17 9:55 AM

Saturday, 7:00 a.m.–1:30 p.m.

Saturday, March 18
Special Events and Meetings
All sessions and events are located in the Oregon Convention Center
unless otherwise noted.

Two-Year College English Association Annual Breakfast
and Awards
Portland Ballroom 255
7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.
Admission with advance ticket purchase only.

Annual Business Meeting of the Conference on College
Composition and Communication
Portland Ballroom 252 & 253
8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.
Saturday Keynote Session
Speaker: Jose Antonio Vargas
Portland Ballroom 251 & 258
9:30 a.m.–10:30 a.m.
International Network of Writing Across the Curriculum
Programs Meeting with Other WAC Stakeholders
B118
10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.
Celebrate Peter Elbow
Portland Ballroom 251 & 258
12:15–1:30 p.m.
New This Year

Following the M Sessions, Postconvention Workshops will begin at 2:00 p.m.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 337

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 337

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–1:30 p.m.

Featured Saturday Sessions

High School and College Connections

•	 L.06 Thirteen Ways of Looking at Dual Credit: Navigating Change,
Capacity, and Community in Dual-Credit Programs

•	 L.31 Cultivating Change across Student Contexts: Transfer across
Secondary and Postsecondary Composition Classrooms

•	 L.43 Bridging the Gap: Cultivating the Capacity to Create Transfer between
High School Writing and FYW

•	 M.18 Collaboration across "Borders": Willamette Promise
Library Partnerships/Integrated Academic Literacies

•	 L.42 Cultivating Library/FYC Partnerships: Assessment, Information
Literacy Instruction, and Beyond

•	 M.06, Cultivating Cross-Disciplinarity: Academic Discourse and Threshold
Concepts in Writing Studies and the Library

•	 M.27 Connecting across Academic Literacies: Writing, Reading, and
Researching
Teaching Writing/Literacy (K–16)

•	 L.18 Rethinking the Nature of Writing Practices through the Development
of Writing Process Maps

•	 L.21 Navigating Transitions and Transformations: Cultivating Critical
Digital Literacy in Home, Classroom, and Institution

•	 M.04 Courageous Conversations and Sensitive Situations: Proactive and
Responsive Methods for Inclusive Classrooms

•	 M.05 Catching Up the Children Left Behind: Critical Thinking for a Tested
Generation

•	 M.12 Cultivating Partnerships for More Effective Teaching and Research

•	 M.45 Rhizomatic Improvement Communities: Three Models of K–16
Professional Development
Two-Year College

•	 L.08 Interrogating Reliability in ELL Assessment

•	 L.10 Creating Change Does Not Mean One Size Fits All: Considering
Institutional Capacities in Curriculum Redesign

•	 L.17 We Changed Everything—Now What? Assessing Writing-Program
Reforms to Cultivate New Directions and New Leadership

•	 L.35 Becoming an Advocate: From Pedagogy to Advocacy in the InterMountain West

•	 M.28 The Inver Hills Model: When Change Begins with Student Needs

•	 M.40 Cultivating Writing Programs and Curricula: The Promises and
Limitations of Open Educational Resources at Two-Year Colleges
Writing Teacher Preparation

•	 L.33 Collaborating and Cross-Training: Cultivating and Sustaining Writing
Teachers
On the following pages, Saturday Featured Sessions are denoted by the
CCCC logo.
338

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 338

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

		Two-Year College English
		Association Annual Breakfast
		and Awards
		Portland Ballroom 255


7:00 a.m.–8:00 a.m.

The Two-Year College English Association will present the TYCA Fame Award and
the Diana Hacker TYCA Outstanding Programs in English Awards for Two-Year
Teachers and Colleges at this ticketed Breakfast. Tickets are by advance purchase
only.

tyca fame award
This award acknowledges the best mention of the two-year college appearing in any
media during the previous year. The award gives credit to those reporters, writers,
filmmakers, and others who seek out and publicize exemplary students, faculty, programs, campuses, and/or recognize the two-year college system.

Fame Award Committee
Chair:	 Samantha Krag, Fullerton College, CA

Joy Barber, Montana State University, Billings

Carmen Carrasquillo, Miramar College, San Diego, CA

Bruce Henderson, Fullerton College, CA

Martha Henning, Portland Community College, OR

Paul Humann, Cabrillo/Evergreen Valley Community Colleges,
		  San Jose, CA

Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College, Bellingham, WA

Mandana Mohsenzadegan, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA

Renee Nelson, DeAnza College, Cupertino, CA

Stefani Okonyan, Fullerton College, CA

Meg O'Rourke, Norco and Fullerton College, CA

Adriana Sanchez, Fullerton College, CA

Howard Tinberg, Bristol Community College, Fall River, MA

Sterling Warner, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
For a listing of previous winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/fame.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 339

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 339

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 7:00–8:00 a.m.

diana hacker tyca outstanding programs
in english awards for two-year teachers
and colleges
These awards are given annually to honor two-year teachers and their colleges for
exemplary programs that enhance students' language learning, helping them to
achieve their college, career, and personal goals.

Outstanding Programs Award Committee
Chair: 




Sravani Banerjee, Evergreen Valley College, San Jose, CA
Leigh Jonaitis, Bergen Community College, Paramus, NJ
Justin Jory, Salt Lake City Community College, UT
Juliette Ludeker, Howard Community College, Columbia, MD

For a listing of previous winners, please visit http://www.ncte.org/tyca/awards/
programs.

340

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 340

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 8:00–9:15 a.m.

		Annual Business Meeting

of the Conference on
		College Composition
		and Communication
		Portland Ballroom 252 & 253



8:00 a.m.–9:15 a.m.

All members of and newcomers to CCCC are invited to attend and vote at the business
meeting.
CCCC Chair: Linda Adler-Kassner, University of California, Santa Barbara
CCCC Associate Chair: Carolyn Calhoon-Dillahunt, Yakima Valley College, WA
CCCC Assistant Chair: Asao B. Inoue, University of Washington Tacoma
CCCC Immediate Past Chair: Joyce Locke Carter, University of Arkansas at Little
Rock
CCCC Secretary: Jessie L. Moore, Elon University, NC
CCCC Executive Secretary/Treasurer: Emily Kirkpatrick, NCTE
CCCC Parliamentarian: Rochelle Rodrigo, University of Arizona, Tucson
See page 380 for rules and procedures for the Annual Business Meeting.

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 341

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 341

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 9:30–10:30 a.m.

		Saturday Keynote Session
		Portland Ballroom 251 & 258


9:30 a.m.–10:30 a.m.

Keynote Speaker: Jose Antonio Vargas
Jose Antonio Vargas is a Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist and filmmaker whose work centers on the changing
American identity. He is the founder of Define American, a nonprofit media and culture organization that
seeks to elevate the conversation around immigration
and citizenship in America. In 2015, MTV aired White
People, a television special he directed on what it means
to be young and white in America, as part of its "Look
Different" campaign. In February 2016, Vargas launched
Jose Antonio Vargas
#EmergingUS, a multimedia news platform he conceived
focusing on race, immigration, and the complexities of multiculturalism.
In June 2011, the New York Times Magazine published a groundbreaking essay Vargas wrote in which he revealed and chronicled his life in America as an undocumented immigrant. A year later, he appeared on the cover of TIME magazine worldwide
with fellow undocumented immigrants as part of a follow-up cover story he wrote.
He then wrote, produced, and directed Documented, a documentary feature film on
his undocumented experience. Its world premiere was at the AFI Docs film festival in Washington, DC, in 2013; it was released in theaters and broadcast on CNN
in 2014, and it received a 2015 NAACP Image Award nomination for outstanding
documentary. Documented is now available on various digital platforms.
Among other accolades Vargas has received are a Public Service Award from the
National Council of La Raza, the country's largest Latinx advocacy organization; the
Salem Award from the Salem Award Foundation, which draws upon the lessons of
the Salem Witch Trials of 1692; and the Freedom to Write Award from PEN Center
USA.
A very proud graduate of San Francisco State University ('04), where he was named
Alumnus of the Year in 2012, and Mountain View High School ('00), he loves jazz,
hip hop, and anything by Gershwin, and worships at the altars of Altman, Almodóvar,
Didion, Baldwin, and Orwell.

342

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 342

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

L Sessions: 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating High School and College Connections

L.01	 Deepening the Conversation: Cultivating Connections
between High School and College Writing Instructors

High school and college writing teachers share many of the same
goals and challenges, but opportunities to converse and collaborate
as colleagues across institutional levels are rare. This Cultivate
session, led by facilitators that include both high school and college
instructors, creates space for discussion and action on secondary–
university transitions. First, we invite participants into small-group
conversations about what it means to prepare students for collegelevel writing and how institutional and political forces are impacting
writing pedagogy. Next, participants will choose among four
interactive mini-workshops on models for action: vertical alignment
teams, professional development workshops, analysis of supervisory
hierarchies, and high school–college writing exchange programs.
Participants will have the opportunity to think collaboratively with
colleagues across instructional levels and will leave with ideas for
concrete action to promote similar cross-institutional spaces at their
home institutions.

Portland Ballroom 255
Facilitators: Laura Borger, Sparta High School
Alicia Pilar Perez, West Essex Regional High School and Teachers
College, Columbia University
Rachael Wendler Shah, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Dorell Thomas, Alternative District of NYC Public Schools, City
University of New York, and Teachers College, Columbia
University
Cultivating Collaboration

L.02	 Cultivating Capacity and Writing Collaboratively

This session seeks to get at our contemporary unraveling in higher
education (and the world) as an opportunity to start fresh, to see with
a new pair of eyes, through groups of I's. What opportunities and
activities might we create as we write collaboratively? In so doing,
we are acknowledging and responding to a socially just need to work
together, to expand knowledge and understanding, and to strengthen

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 343

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 343

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

our organization (in the broadest sense). To that end, the session will
explore several ways to get at collaboration, via both large and small
groups. As a cohesive group, participants will cultivate a number of
quick takes to be modified and appropriated for themselves, from a
book discussion to class writing in Drive, and on to blogging (and
micro-blogging). In smaller groups, we will then begin cultivating
collaborative writing processes and best practices from our
participants.

Portland Ballroom 257
Facilitators: Virginia Bower, Mars Hill University
Brooke A. Carlson, Charminade University

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.03	 Critical Pedagogy and Context

Sponsored by the Working-Class Culture and Pedagogy Standing Group
This panel explores pedagogies designed to aid in the attainment of critical
literacy for working-class students.

D136
Chair: William Thelin, University of Akron, OH
Speakers: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga,
"Changing English Majors' Experiences: Cultivating Critical Citizens
through a First-Year Cohort Program"
Heidi Rosenberg, Madison College, "Cultivating Change in Preparing
Students in Introduction to College Writing in a Two-Year Technical
College"
William Thelin, University of Akron, OH, "Critical Pedagogy for the
Working Class"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

L.04	 Writing, Rhetoric, and Role Play: Cultivating Writing
Connections through Role-Playing Games in the
Classroom and the Workplace

Sponsored by the Council for Play and Game Studies Standing Group
This panel explores several aspects of f2f role-playing and games as ways
of composing and for teaching writing.

Portland Ballroom 256
Chair: Douglas Eyman, George Mason University
continued on next page

344

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 344

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Speakers: Ben Lauren, Michigan State University
Matt Magelssen-Green, George Mason University
Dawn Opel, Michigan State University
Joshua Wood, Clemson University
Lauren Woolbright, Clemson University
5-History

L.05	 Cultivating Capacity in Histories of Composition

Presenters challenge histories of composition by using new methods in
historiography to cultivate capacity in our knowledge of the past.

D131
Speakers: Bruce McComiskey, University of Alabama at Birmingham
Michael Michaud, Rhode Island College
Lauren Short, University of New Hampshire
High School/College Connections

L.06	 Thirteen Ways of Looking at Dual Credit: Navigating
Change, Capacity, and Community in Dual-Credit
Programs
This roundtable examines dual-credit classes and a collaborative
relationship established between a school district and a university.

Portland Ballroom 252 & 253
Chair: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri
Speakers: Aubrey Binder, Warrensburg High School
Jennifer Fowler, Warrensburg High School
Russell Greinke, University of Central Missouri
Chelsea Orman, Warrensburg High School
Daniel Schierenbeck, University of Central Missouri
Respondent: Rose Gubele, University of Central Missouri
2-Basic Writing

L.07	 Local Research Initiatives in Basic Writing

Presenters offer four investigative studies on basic writing curriculum,
pedagogical strategies, and students' self-perceptions.

A109
Chair: Brij Lunine, University of California, Santa Cruz
Speakers: Ruth Benander, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College,
"Student Writers' 'Progress' from Basic Writing to Advanced
Composition: Assumptions and Realities"
Mwangi Chege, University of Cincinnati Blue Ash College, "Student
Writers' 'Progress' from Basic Writing to Advanced Composition:
Assumptions and Realities"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 345

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 345

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Jungmin Lee, The Ohio State University, "Learning Transfer and the
Flipped Classroom Model for ESL Writing"
Maureen McBride, University of Nevada, Reno, "Understanding
Perceptions of Ideal Readers and Writers to Cultivate Change for
Students in Basic Writing"
Kelli Prejean, Marshall University, "The Path We've Sown: A Three-Year
Look at One Program's Basic Writing Initiatives"
Meghan Sweeney, Saint Mary's College, "Understanding Perceptions of
Ideal Readers and Writers to Cultivate Change for Students in Basic
Writing"
Two-Year College/English Language Learners

L.08	 Interrogating Reliability in ELL Assessment

We will test the trustworthiness of a FYWP assessment process for ELL
writers at a two-year college. Audience will audit student texts.

E141
Chair: Gail Shuck, Boise State University
Speakers: Jenica Draney, College of Western Idaho
Joy Palmer, College of Western Idaho
Ryan Witt, College of Western Idaho
Abby Wolford, College of Western Idaho
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.09	 Resisting Extractivist Ideologies: Cultivating Rhetorical
Capabilities in Multilingual Writers

This panel confronts the ideology of extraction—that often determines the
experience of international students—by exploring FYC pedagogy.

E143
Chair: James Crosswhite, University of Oregon
Speakers: Kara Clevinger, University of Oregon, "Amplifying the
Accented Voice in College Composition"
Alison Lau Stephens, University of Oregon, "Recovering 'Beauty' and
Agency in International Student Writing"
Stephen Rust, University of Oregon, "Resisting Extractive Ideologies
through Ecocomposition and Place-Based Writing"

346

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 346

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Two-Year College

L.10	 Creating Change Does Not Mean One Size Fits All:
Considering Institutional Capacities in Curriculum
Redesign

This panel calls for a "refit" of current curricular trends in openadmissions pedagogy based on individual, institutional capacities.

C123
Speakers: Holly Gilman, South Seattle College
Tish Lopez, South Seattle College
Paige Talbot, South Seattle College
13-Writing Programs

L.11	 The Reality of Resources and Road Blocks at a Rural
College: Integrating Reading and Writing for Student
Success
A rural Oregon college with limited resources seeks to join the 21st
century by integrating reading and writing.

F149
Speakers: Amber Ashpole, Southwestern Oregon Community College
Meredith Bulinski, Southwestern Oregon Community College
Rod Keller, Southwestern Oregon Community College
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.12	 Cultivating Collaboration and Creativity: A Writing Center
Grows a Writing Program
This panel presents a linked art history–FYC curriculum developed at an
art and design university with general institutional applicability.

E142
Speakers: Heather Fitzgerald, Emily Carr University of Art and Design
Jacqueline Turner, Emily Carr University of Art and Design
Deirdre Vinyard, University of Washington, Bothell
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.13	 Take a Chance on Me

This session argues for the importance of inclusive pedagogies, including
those focusing on black literacies and at-risk populations such as firstgeneration writers and former foster youths.

C126

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 347

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 347

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Chair: Jennifer Beech, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga
Speakers: Sherie Mungo, Old Dominion University, "African American
Teaching Literacies: The Role of the HBCU in Teaching Black Students
How to Write"
Bernice Olivas, University of Nebraska, "Supporting First-Generation
Writers in the Composition Classroom: Exploring the Practices of the
Boise State McNair Scholars Program"
Liz Onufer, Idaho State University, "Former Foster Youth in First-Year
Composition Courses: Cultivating a College Community to Create
Change"
10-Research

L.14	 Disciplinary Self-Examination

Participants share results of studies focused on artifacts of disciplinarity,
principally journals and policies.

C122
Chair: Ashar Foley, New York City College of Technology
Speakers: Kristine Johnson, Calvin College, "Representations of Students
in College Composition and Communication"
Johanna Phelps-Hillen, University of South Florida, "Cultivating
Competence in Change: IRBs and Writing Studies Research"
Aleksandra Swatek, Purdue University, "Mapping Expertise in Writing
Studies: Visualizing Interdisciplinary Work"
Pamela Takayoshi, Kent State University, OH, "A Return to Composing
Processes"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.15	 Reimagining Narrative in the Disciplinary Landscape

An exploration of ways that narrative not only renders but can be used to
analyze, reason, and conceptualize.

F151
Speakers: Bruce Ballenger, Boise State University, "Essaying as Narrative
Thinking"
Jim Fredricksen, Boise State University, "Learning to Understand Writers'
Intentions"
Alexandria Peary, Salem State University, MA, "Speculative Fiction in
First-Year Composition: Future-Set Narratives to Teach Writing in
Other Contexts"

348

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 348

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

3-Community, Civic & Public

L.16	 Cultivating NWP Connections for Community
Engagement

Four National Writing Project directors discuss community partnerships
developed at their midwestern sites.

A108
Chair: Robert Brooke, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Speakers: Robert Brooke, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Warrior
Writers in and beyond the Classroom"
Maggie Christensen, University of Nebraska Omaha, "Finding Voice
through Youth Writing in the Community"
Cathie English, Missouri State University, Springfield, "Professional
Growth through Community Connections"
Susan Martens, Missouri Western State University, Saint Joseph,
"Leveraging the Writing Marathon for Community Connections"
Two-Year College

L.17	 We Changed Everything—Now What? Assessing WritingProgram Reforms to Cultivate New Directions and New
Leadership
Faculty at four geographically and demographically diverse two-year
colleges show how assessment data have driven reform and motivated
faculty.

E146
Chair: Peter Adams, Community College of Baltimore County, MD
Speakers: Mark Blaauw-Hara, North Central Michigan College, Petoskey
Shelley DeBlasis, New Mexico State University Carlsbad
Jeffrey Klausman, Whatcom Community College
Meagan Newberry, College of Western Idaho
Respondent: Holly Hassel, University of Wisconsin–Marathon County
Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

L.18	 Rethinking the Nature of Writing Practices through the
Development of Writing Process Maps

A mini-workshop in which participants develop writing process maps as
visual representations of their writing practices.

E145
Speakers: Elena Garcia, Utah Valley University
Benjamin Goodwin, Utah Valley University

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 349

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 349

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.19	 Teacher Training in First-Year Composition

Speakers discuss the impact of national standards and high school realities
on teaching first-year composition.

A103
Chair: Michael Faris, Texas Tech University
Speakers: Jonathan Green, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, "Here
Come the Newbies: Cultivating Confidence in Novice Instructors"
Amanda Haruch, University of Idaho, "Understanding How English
Graduate Teaching Assistants Make Sense of and Value WPA Outcomes
for First-Year Composition"
Katherina Sibbald, University of California, Davis, "What I Learned in
High School: Students' Notions of College Composition"
12-Theory

L.20	 Embodied Rhetorics and the Affordances of a Fat Studies
Pedagogy
This session challenges the normalized, seemingly axiomatic
understandings and intersections of bodies, language, and pedagogy.

F150
Chair: William Banks, East Carolina University
Speakers: Michelle Eble, East Carolina University, "Rhetorical
Interventions: Re-writing 'Obese' Bodies"
A. Abby Knoblauch, Kansas State University, "Excised Excess: Making
Space for the Fat Body in Embodied Rhetorics"
Marie Moeller, University of Wisconsin–La Crosse, "A Fat Call to Action:
Reframing Obesity Rhetorics through a Fat Studies Pedagogy"
Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

L.21	 Navigating Transitions and Transformations: Cultivating
Critical Digital Literacy in Home, Classroom, and
Institution
This panel explores methods for bridging digital divides and creating
connections between home and classroom literacies.

C124
Speakers: Lacy Hope, Washington State University
Lucy Johnson, Washington State University
Richard Snyder, Washington State University

350

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 350

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

12-Theory

L.22	 Type Matters: On the Rhetoricity of Letterforms

Drawing from scholarship on the materiality of text in rhetoric and writing
studies, the speakers on this panel will explore typography.

D137
Speakers: David Bedsole, Florida State University
Dànielle Nicole DeVoss, Michigan State University/WRAC
Elizabeth Fleitz, Lindenwood University, St. Charles, MO
Aaron Kashtan, University of North Carolina at Charlotte
John Logie, University of Minnesota
Joshua M. Rea, University of South Florida
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

L.23	 Cultivating Latinidad as Institutional Invention: Lessons
Learned at Hispanic Serving Institutions
Provides approaches for utilizing "Hispanic serving institution" as
invention for program and curricular design, delivery, and assessment.

A106
Speakers: Isabel Baca, University of Texas at El Paso, "Bilingualism in
the Workplace Writing Classroom: English? Spanish? Why Not Both?"
Aydé Enríquez-Loya, California State University, Chico, "Interrogating
Ghosts in the Writing Classroom: Decolonial Storytelling Strategies for
FYC Bilingual Students"
Laura Gonzales, University of Texas at El Paso, "Converging Fields,
Expanding Outcomes: Translation as a Framework for Teaching
Technical Communication"
Isaac Hinojosa, Texas A&M Corpus Christi, "Engaging the Coyolxauhqui
Imperative for Cultivating Awareness"
Kendall Leon, California State University, Chico, "HSI as Programmatic
Design"
Octavio Pimentel, Texas State University, "Giving Voice to the Forgotten"
Susan Wolff Murphy, Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi,
"Developing Intercultural Competence in Our First-Year Writing
Program"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 351

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 351

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.24	 Raise Your Voice! Make Some Noise!

Explore inventive projects that emphasize voice and prepare first-year
writing students for personal, civic, and professional engagement.

E144
Chair: P. F. Potvin, University of Michigan-Dearborn
Speakers: P. F. Potvin, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Walking the
Talk in Detroit's Eastern Market"
Kristian Stewart, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Moving Forward:
Engaging Flint Youth through Digital Storytelling"
Andrew Wright, University of Michigan-Dearborn, "Words of Witness"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

L.25	 Geographies of Writing Studies

Panelists draw from geography to inform their practices in the teaching of
writing.

E148
Chair: Heather Devrick, University of California, Merced
Speakers: Morgan Emery, University of North Carolina, Wilmington,
"Pedagogies in Space: Reconceptualizing Physical Space in the
Composition Classroom"
Mary Wright, University of Wisconsin–River Falls, "A Pedagogy of Hope:
Place-Based Writing as Activist Inquiry"
12-Theory

L.26	 Perspectives on Identity and Inquiry

Panelists explore how women of color theorize identity and inquiry.

D134
Chair: Nancy Wilson, Texas State University
Speakers: Jonathan Martinez, University of Texas at San Antonio, "The
Path of Conocimiento and Autohistoria-teoría: Theorizing Compostura
as an Anzaldúian Writing Praxis for Students of Color"
LaToya Sawyer, Syracuse University, "Who Bows? Who Gets to Eat
Cake? Black Women's Identification and Healing through Reader
Response to Beyoncé"
Anna Zeemont, CUNY Graduate Center, "Redefining Literacy: Writing,
Silence, and Intersectional Identity in Janet Mock's Redefining
Realness"
Candace Zepeda, Our Lady of the Lake University, "Chicana Feminist
Thought as a Methodology to Cultivate Cultural, Political, and Social
Inquiry in and out of the Composition Classroom"

352

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 352

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

L.27	 Genre and Transfer

Presenters focus on graduate teaching assistant (GTA) training and
understanding diverse genre approaches to teaching.

A104
Chair: Denisha Harris, California State University, San Bernardino
Speakers: Melissa Bugdal, University of Connecticut, Storrs, "The
Rhetorical Situation and Transfer of Writing Knowledge from Basic
Writing to Writing in the Disciplines"
Katherine Fredlund, University of Memphis, "Writing about Writing
Courses and the Graduate Teaching Assistant: Cultivating Disciplinary
Understanding in a Diverse English Department"
Edrees Nawabi, Washington State University, "I Know You Are but What
Am I? Engaging and Developing Students' Sense of 'Good Humor'"
Kristen Nielsen, Boston University, "Beyond the Essay, Beyond
Montaigne: Reenvisioning Writing Conventions and Assignments"
8-Language

L.28	 Translingualism, Culture, and Power

Translingualism and multilingualism both inside the classroom and
beyond are explored to understand and reconcile power, agency, language,
and culture.

B112
Chair: Patricia Poblete, Iowa State University, Ames
Speakers: Hadi Banat, Purdue University, "Multiculturalism and
Multilingual Writers"
Tom Do, Concordia University Chicago, "Cultivating an Understanding of
Difference in the Translingual Classroom"
Dhruba Neupane, University of Waterloo, "Translingual-Transliterate
Practices of Nepali Immigrants in Canada: An Intervention into Gated
Literacies"
Andrea Parmegiani, Bronx Community College, "A Translingual
Pedagogical Alliance to Improve Success among Spanish-Speaking
ESL Students"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 353

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 353

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.29	 Sight and Sound

These presentations explore the intersections of sound pedagogy and
visual online storytelling, street art as visual rhetoric, and ideographs as a
tool for creating arguments.

C125
Chair: Julie Nelson Christoph, University of Puget Sound
Speakers: Chris Gasser, Oregon State University, "Ideographs and Image
Macros: Cultivating Change through Inquiry"
Andrea McCrary, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, "Beyond
Banksy: A Pedagogical Experiment in Visual Rhetoric, Identification,
and Community"
Jennifer Ware, Wright State University, "Sound as a Visual Medium OR
The Language of Audio Is Visual"
13-Writing Programs

L.30	 Peer Tutoring Strategies for Campus Writing Centers

Presenters share data and experiences on how institutions acknowledge the
contributions of peer tutors in the academy.

D140
Chair: Phillip Bratta, Michigan State University
Speakers: Stephanie Conner, College of Coastal Georgia, "Cultivating
Persistence through Peer Accountability: Writing Center Coaches as
Mentors in First-Year Composition Peer Writing Groups"
Jennifer Smith Daniel, Queens University of Charlotte, "Leveraging
Student Perceptions to Cultivate a Shared Purpose in Writing Center
Sessions"
David Johnson, Ohio University, "Reconsidering Representation: The
Necessity of Critical Self-Reflection in the Writing Center"
Sara Wilder, The Ohio State University
High School and College Connections

L.31	 Cultivating Change across Student Contexts: Transfer
across Secondary and Postsecondary Composition
Classrooms

This panel approaches long-term transfer skills across several levels of
composition: early and late secondary, first year, and program-wide.

B113
Chair: Brandon Abdon, The Advanced Placement Program, "Necessity of
Transfer across Contexts"

354

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 354

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Speakers: Sheila Carter-Tod, Virginia Tech, "Weaving University Writing
Program Outcomes into High School Writing Curricula"
Martha Davis, Norwalk High School, "The High School Side of a High
School and College Collaboration"
John Golden, Portland Public Schools, "Alignment of Composition and
Analysis Skills from High School to Higher Ed"
John Marshall, Riverpoint Academy, "Collaborating with 'Beyond High
School' Stakeholders for Transfer of Composition Skills"
Mary Trachsel, University of Iowa, "The College Side of a High School
and College Collaboration"
7-Institutional and Professional

L.32	 Focus on Faculty Collaborations in Writing in the
Disciplines

Panelists share findings from studies that aim to enhance writing
instruction in a range of academic disciplines.

B111
Chair: Christopher Friend, Saint Leo University
Speakers: Magnus Gustafsson, Chalmers University of Technology,
"Modes and Affordances for Cultivating Content Faculty in Their Work
to Enhance Learning through Writing"
Kathleen Jernquist, United States Coast Guard Academy, "Composing
Ourselves as Cross-Disciplinary Colleagues and Creators of Change"
Rolf Norgaard, University of Colorado Boulder, "After NSSE and the
Writing Module: Leveraging National Data for Campus and Writing
Program Action"
Tricia Serviss, Santa Clara University, "Project-Based Faculty
Collaboration in Action: Cultivating WID Programming"
Julia Voss, Santa Clara University, "Project-Based Faculty Collaboration
in Action: Cultivating WID Programming"
Writing Teacher Preparation

L.33	 Collaborating and Cross-Training: Cultivating and
Sustaining Writing Teachers

Four teachers examine collaborating and cross-training between high
school and college instructors that sustains their teaching of writing.

D135
Speakers: Amanda Felton, Ridgeview High School, "Fostering College
Writing at the High School Level: Partnership through Professional
Learning Communities"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 355

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 355

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Susan Gardner, Walla Walla University, "Enriching the Soil: The
Importance of Theoretical Knowledge and Practical Mentoring for
Writing Teachers"
Annemarie Hamlin, Central Oregon Community College, "Remaining
Vital: The Sustaining Power of Reciprocal Relationships as Writing
Teachers"
Garlyn Wacker, Chisholm Trail Academy, "Transforming the Relationship:
College Mentors Become Writing Colleagues"
4-Creative Writing

L.34	 Cultivating Creative Nonfiction for Imaginative Habits of
Mind
This panel considers the role of imaginative thinking in college writing
and creative nonfiction in a larger curricular context.

D139
Speakers: Sharon Marshall, St. John's University, "Rendering Race: How
Creative Nonfiction in First-Year Writing Classes Can Combat Racism,
Encourage Empathy, and Enhance University Belonging"
Irene Papoulis, Trinity College, Hartford, CT, "The Anxiety of Academic
Self-Exposure: Creative Nonfiction, Elbow's 'Responding Guidelines,'
and Millennial Sensibilities"
Wendy Ryden, Long Island University Post, "Cultivating Convergence:
An Alternative to Paradigms of Transfer"
Two-Year College

L.35	 Becoming an Advocate: From Pedagogy to Advocacy in
the Inter-Mountain West
Panelists from the inter-mountain West will describe their advocacy
experience, especially in response to Complete College America.

A105
Chair: Jim Webber, University of Nevada, Reno
Speakers: Karen Henderson, Helena College University of Montana,
"Thrust into Reform Movements: The Accidental Advocate"
Erik Juergensmeyer, Fort Lewis College, "Negotiating across the State:
Writing Program Administration and Rhetorical Advocacy"
Karen Uehling, Boise State University, "Cross-Institutional Collaboration:
From Pedagogy to Advocacy"

356

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 356

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.36	 Redesigning the Introductory Technical Communication
Course: Cultivating Better Writers and Better Teachers

Redesigning an introductory technical communication course by analyzing
60 course syllabi and literature in the field to cultivate change.

E147
Speakers: Kelli Cargile Cook, Texas Tech University, "Mentoring to
Cultivate Better Teachers: Affordances and Constraints"
Ashley Edlin, Texas Tech University, "The Graduate Student Curriculum
Committee: How Graduate Students Can Effect Change"
Amy Hanson, Texas Tech University, "Introduction to Technical
Communication: A Service Course with 100 Disciplinary Needs"
Kylie Jacobsen, Texas Tech University, "A National Perspective:
Assessing Introductory Technical Communication Course Syllabi"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

L.37	 Cultivating Credibility and Communicating Capacities:
Rhetorical Practices in Teaching, Tutoring, and Mentoring
Military-to-Civilian Job Seekers
This session aims to cultivate strategies for instructors and others who
assist military-affiliated writers with job application materials.

B115
Speakers: Ashly Smith, Sam Houston State University
Cate St. Pierre, University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown
Sheeba Varkey, St. John's University
Micah Christopher Wright, The University of Texas at San Antonio
3-Community, Civic & Public

L.38	 Activist Academics Advocating for Change

Four perspectives advocating for change in various contexts.

B110
Chair: Irene Clark, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Sarah DeLury, Kent State University, "Dispelling Myths by
Defining Rape"
Jennifer Forsthoefel, Georgia Institute of Technology, "Cultivating
Undisciplined Agendas: Reconsidering Our Role as Education
Specialists"
Julia Garrett, University of Wisconsin-Madison, "Family Literacy
Regimes: New Orthodoxies and Lost Generations"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 357

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 357

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

12-Theory

L.39	 Composing in Repair: What We Learn from Makers and
Making

This panel brings together concepts and practices drawn from multimodal
composing, theories of making/invention, and maker culture.

D138
Speakers: Kim Jaxon, California State University, Chico, "Not Rocket
Science: Students' Multimodal Compositions in Science"
Peter Kittle, California State University, Chico, "Making 'Making' Make
Sense: Affinity Spaces for Professional Development"
Laura Sparks, California State University, Chico, "Rhetoric and Invention
in a Time of Torture"
12-Theory

L.40	 Ethics and Cultural Inquiry

Speakers discuss culturally responsive and ethically oriented pedagogies
of rhetoric and composition.

D133
Chair: Mary Knatterud, University of Minnesota Medical School
Speakers: Erin Frymire, Northeastern University, Boston, MA, "Nobody
before the Law: Bodily Invisibility in Mass Incarceration Legislation"
Jessica Masterson, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, "Toward a
Reconceptualization of Difference in Culturally Responsive Teaching"
Matthew Overstreet, University of Pittsburgh, "Mind-Body-Self-ObjectOther: Composition's Ethics of Attunement"
Patricia Suzanne Sullivan, University of Virginia, "Asked and Answered:
Teaching Inquiry and the Rhetorics of Critique and Assertion"
9-Professional and Technical Writing

L.41	 Building Capacities for Justice and Inclusivity in
Document Design

Three case studies exploring issues of ethics and intersectionality in a
range of public policy debates.

B117
Chair: Anne Zanzucchi, University of California, Merced
Speakers: Lora Arduser, University of Cincinnati, "Cultivating an Ethical
Rhetoric of the New Eugenics"
Ella Browning, University of Pennsylvania, "Sex, Gender, Health, and
Ethics in International Contexts: Cultivating Change in Technical
Writing through the Dutee Chand Case"
Barbi Smyser-Fauble, Butler University, "Cultivating Socioculturally
Inclusive and Responsible Risk Communication Writing Practices"
358

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 358

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 10:45 a.m.–12:00 p.m.

Library Partnerships

L.42	 Cultivating Library/FYC Partnerships: Assessment,
Information Literacy Instruction, and Beyond

This roundtable discussion will explore several models of collaborations
between FYC faculty and librarians.

B116
Chair: Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, CUNY
Speakers: Jennifer DeGregorio, Hunter College, CUNY
Iris Finkel, Hunter College, CUNY
Stephanie Margolin, Hunter College, CUNY
John Pell, Hunter College, CUNY
James P. Purdy, Duquesne University
Renee Schaller, Hunter College, CUNY
High School/College Connections

L.43	 Bridging the Gap: Cultivating the Capacity to Create
Transfer between High School Writing and FYW

This roundtable of high school and college teachers answers the question:
how can we bridge the gap between high school and college writing?

Portland Ballroom 254
Speakers: Brianna Cline, Lake City High School
Caroline Hall, University of Idaho
Kirsten Pomerantz, Lake City High School
Gwen Reed, Lake City High School
Krystal Wu, Catlin Gabel, Portland, OR
Roundtable Leader: Barbara Kirchmeier, University of Idaho, Moscow
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

L.44	 The Psychology of Motivation: Engaging What Really
Moves Us to Write

This panel discusses three ways to increase student motivation: learning
partnerships, self-determination, and strengths analysis.

F152
Speakers: Paul Feigenbaum, Florida International University, Miami
Wanda Raiford, Florida International University, Miami
Cayce Wicks, Florida International University, Miami

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 359

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 359

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

M Sessions: 12:15–1:30 p.m.
Cultivate and Think Tank Sessions
Cultivating Composition Pedagogy

M.01	 Cross Talk: Sharing Innovative Writing Strategies for
21st-Century Composition Classes

This diverse group of writing teachers shares strategies and
collaborative conversation regarding the effectiveness of the
incorporation of a multimodal social semiotic curriculum in writing
classes across all grade levels. Interactive, individual workshop
presentations will highlight each presenter's innovative strategy
regarding multimodal, digital, and technological connections to the
composition process. Topics include:
TED Talks and Composition Strategies
Multimodality: A Design for Writing
Engaging Online Students in Multimodal Projects
Teaching Multimodality to Teachers
Elementary Connection to Multimodal Writing
The session will end with whole-group sharing.

Portland Ballroom 254
Facilitators: Marilyn Buono, Hofstra University
Lana Lockhart, Spelman College
Josefa Pace, Sonoma State University
Melinda Smith, Hofstra University/Manhasset Public Schools
Sean Tingle, Arizona State University
Think Tank on Teaching, Learning, Writing, and Researching across
Interinstitutional and International Borders

M.02	 Shape Shifting: Exploring Collaborative,
Interinstitutional and International Approaches
toward the Identification of Frontier Taxonomies and
Paradigm Shifts in Teaching, Learning, Research, and
Writing Models and Supports
In this session we will explore the challenge of crafting new
approaches that build on previous knowledge and experience but
nonetheless provide a leap forward in terms of our thinking and our
practice. We hope to share our excitement, enthusiasm, and curiosity
around finding new ways to consider learning, teaching, research,

360

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 360

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

and writing, and to learn from colleagues about how we could indeed
propel our thinking and our practice past a measured step-by-step
approach to something that could be genuinely entitled a radical
shift in both thinking and practice. In order to fuel discussion in this
area, we will draw on our broad experience of teaching, learning,
researching, and writing across borders and in a range of rich and
challenging local and international settings. Attendees can expect a
particularly engaged and informed discussion on the topic and can
anticipate being invited to contribute to an ongoing international
conversation in this area.

Portland Ballroom 256
Facilitators: Chris Anson, North Carolina State University
Stacey Cozart, Aarhus University, Denmark
Christiane K. Donahue, Dartmouth and Université de Lille
Alison Farrell, Maynooth University, Ireland
Donald Fisher, University of British Columbia
Jessie Moore, Elon University
Peggy ONeill, Loyola University Maryland
Ide O'Sullivan, University of Limerick, Ireland
Rachel Riedner, George Washington University
Tiffany Touma, Shenzhen College of International Education
Carl Whithaus, University of California, Davis

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.03	 Come Together: Innovations in Peer Review

This panel examines new approaches to peer review, including
restructuring the review "team," incorporating Google Sites, and
considering the practice of encomium.

C122
Chair: Daveena Tauber, ScholarStudio
Speakers: Brent Chappelow, University of Southern California, "An
Encomium to the Rough Draft: Student Peer Review as Epideictic
Rhetoric"
Catherine Forsa, Roger Williams University, "Making ePortfolios Public:
Spaces for Peer Review, Reflection, and Writing Communities"
Susan Richardson, Macomb Community College, "Creating Community
in the Online Class through Peer Review"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 361

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 361

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

M.04	 Courageous Conversations and Sensitive Situations:
Proactive and Responsive Methods for Inclusive
Classrooms

This session will help participants create environments conducive to
facilitating "courageous conversations."

Portland Ballroom 255
Speakers: Patricia do Carmo, Mt. San Antonio College
Meg O'Rourke, Fullerton College
Adriana Sanchez, Fullerton College
Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

M.05	 Catching Up the Children Left Behind: Critical Thinking
for a Tested Generation

Our presenters will discuss how our texts, lessons, and programs expand
the limited notion of writing adopted by the most tested generation.

B116
Speakers: Tamar Christensen, UCLA
Peggy Davis, UCLA
Randall Fallows, UCLA
Leigh Harris, UCLA
Library Partnerships

M.06	 Cultivating Cross-Disciplinarity: Academic Discourse and
Threshold Concepts in Writing Studies and the Library
Writing instructors and librarians reveal missed opportunities and
connections in the concepts and discourses of each field.

A105
Speakers: Toni Carter, Auburn University
Carolyn Caffrey Gardner, University of Wisconsin-Superior
Jamie White-Farnham, University of Wisconsin-Superior
12-Theory

M.07	 Writing Feminisms Online, on Bodies, and in Life Writing
This panel looks at ways that women write themselves through website
analysis, tattooed bodies, and life writing.

D133
Chair: Ana Milena Ribero, Oregon State University

362

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 362

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Speakers: Tamika Carey, University at Albany, SUNY, "The Learning
Cure: Healing Pedagogies in Black Women's Life Writing"
Hillary Coenen, Oklahoma State University, "Making #FeministPublics:
An Analysis of Four International Women's Rights Organizations'
Websites"
Sonya Gonzales, California State University, San Bernardino, "Women
Writing the Body: Creating Change through Feminist Visual Rhetoric"
13-Writing Programs

M.08	 Required Reading: On Internally Produced Composition
Textbooks

An examination of the University of Oregon's Casebook Series as a model
for programs to self-publish composition course readers.

D136
Chair: Miriam Gershow, University of Oregon
Speakers: Carolyn Bergquist, University of Oregon, "The Collaborative
Possibilities of Internally Published Textbooks"
James Crosswhite, University of Oregon, "The Vision of a New Textbook
Model"
Miriam Gershow, University of Oregon, "The Successful Compromises of
Textbook Production"
Katherine McAlvage, Marylhurst University, "The Graduate Student as
Textbook Editor"
Martina Shabram, University of Oregon, "The Graduate Student as
Textbook Editor"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.09	 Writing, Humanizing, and Recognizing the Role of
Emotion in First-Year Composition

This panel considers curricular initiatives of basic writing populations.

A104
Chair: Shane Wood, University of Kansas
Speakers: Janel Atlas, University of Delaware, "Cultivating Compassion,
Accepting Anxiety: Embracing the Role of Emotion in Composition"
Carole Center, University of New England, Biddeford, ME, "Reading and
Writing to Humanize"
April White Feiden, University of Wisconsin-Platteville, "Cultivating
Academic Community and Voice Using a Stereotypes Theme and
Discussions in First-Year Composition"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 363

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 363

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.10	 Gaming the System: Innovations in Teaching

Speakers explore the role of technology and games in first-year
composition.

A103
Chair: Rachael Green-Howard, University of Delaware
Speakers: Nina Feng, University of Utah, "Narrative Architecture:
Immersive Game Design for First-Year Composition"
Walter Iriarte, Dakota State University, "Minecrafted Composition:
Cultivating Writing in a Digital World"
Dave Rick, University of Arizona, "Renegade Roles against the Single
Story: Fantastical Rhetorics of Empowerment and Inclusion"
Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

M.12	 Cultivating Partnerships for More Effective Teaching and
Research
Interdisciplinary collaborations involving English and education faculty
have promoted more effective student writing.

B113
Chair: Alice Trupe, Bridgewater College
Speakers: Ashley Lauro, Bridgewater College
Jenny Martin, Bridgewater College
Alice Trupe, Bridgewater College
12-Theory

M.13	 At Arm's Length: (Un)Easy Relationships among Queer
Thought and Rhetorical Listening
Panelists pose responses to the question "Why hasn't queer thought
engaged rhetorical listening more seriously?"

A108
Speakers: Gavin Johnson, The Ohio State University, "Rethinking Sexual
Literacy via Feminist Rhetorics and Foucault"
Meridith Kruse, University of Southern California, "Queerly
Eavesdropping: Rhetorical Eavesdropping and Queer/Crip Time"
Timothy Oleksiak, Bloomsburg University, "Expansive Interventions:
Queer Theory and Rhetorical Listening"
Respondent: Trixie Smith, Michigan State University

364

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 364

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

10-Research

M.14	 Researching Meaningful Feedback in Assessment
Ecologies

This panel will present research results focused on what students perceive
as meaningful feedback in regards to their writing.

D138
Chair: Kara Mae Brown, University of California, Santa Barbara
Speakers: Kara Mae Brown, University of California, Santa Barbara
Kristen Getchell, Curry College
Jennifer K. Johnson, University of California, Santa Barbara
Nicole Warwick, University of California, Santa Barbara
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

M.15	 Cultivating Activist Research Futures

Each panelist discusses the future of activism in research and teaching.

F152
Chair: Mandy Macklin, University of Washington, Seattle
Speakers: Amy Clark, University of Minnesota Duluth, "Dual Natures:
Researcher and Activist in the Midst of a Policy Debate"
Amber Engelson, Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, "Cultivating
(Her)Story: Teaching Feminist Archival Research and the Politics of
Imagining"
Anna Gurley, University of Oklahoma, "Activist Inquiry: Recognition
Work and Cultivating Democracy as Social Ethics"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.16	 "Let Us Cultivate Our Garden": Creating Conditions for
Learning and Change

A panel of three two-year college teachers explores the metaphor of the
community garden to model successful FYC pedagogy.

E144
Speakers: Debra Airheart, Trinity Valley Community College,
"Cultivating the Environment: Creating a Garden of Student Writing"
Brandon Barnes, Trinity Valley Community College, "Writing under the
Idea(s) of Freedom: Compatibilism and Cultivation"
James Reed, Trinity Valley Community College, "The Condition of
the Garden: How Do We Conscientiously Create the Conditions for
Learning and for Change?"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 365

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 365

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

6-Information Technologies

M.17	 #games4Cs: Possibility Spaces for Games and
Composition

This interactive panel will ask the audience to both play games and
brainstorm questions about the future of game studies in composition.

D131
Speakers: Joshua Daniel-Wariya, Oklahoma State University, "Crystal
Tools: Racial Rhetorics, Pure Process, and Game Engines"
Jacob Euteneuer, Oklahoma State University, "Toward a Ludic Literacy:
Procedurality, Metaphor, and Imageword in the Classroom"
Josiah Meints, Oklahoma State University, "Kilts, Hardhats, and Hazmat
Suits: Empire, Visual Identity, and Play in Team Fortress 2"
High School/College Connections

M.18	 Collaboration across "Borders": Willamette Promise

An innovative partnership between high school and college faculty aimed
at providing competency-based credit for FY writing.

D135
Chair: Cornelia Paraskevas, Western Oregon University
Speakers: Rachel Duncan, Central High School
Ben Hunter, Sheridan High School
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.19	 Questions and Contemplations in L2 Writing Pedagogies
This session focuses on strategies for teaching L2 writers, including the
use of discourse analysis, screencast feedback, and mindfulness-based
writing.

C125
Chair: Sharon Mitchler, Centralia College
Speakers: Yi-Min Chiu, Wenzao University of Languages, "Do 'Best
Practices' Help Students' Self-Directed Learning in Second Language
Writing? A Qualitative Study on the Relation between Teachers'
Written Responses and Students' Self-Directed Learning"
Kelly Cunningham, Iowa State University, "Does Our Choice of
Technology Impact the Language of Our Feedback? Analyzing Text
and Screencast Feedback on ESL Writing through Appraisal"
I Ju Tu, Southern Connecticut State University, "Do 'Best Practices' Help
Students' Self-Directed Learning in Second Language Writing? A
Qualitative Study on the Relation between Teachers' Written Responses
and Students' Self-Directed Learning"
Scott Wagar, Miami University of Ohio, Oxford, "Contemplative Writing
Pedagogy and L2 Writers"
366

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 366

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.20	 The Stakes Are High: Cultivating Identity via Graduate
Student Writing

Graduate students form identities writing multiple high-stakes genres,
from their first terms in school through the dissertation.

E143
Speakers: Megan Adams, The University of Findlay, "Digital
Dissertations: A Research Story"
Kathryn Baillargeon, University of California, Santa Barbara, "'So, I'm
Not the Only One?': Writing, Reflection, and Peer Socialization in
Dissertation Boot Camps"
Kristine Blair, Youngstown State University, "Digital Dissertations: A
Research Story"
Meghan Hancock, University of Louisville, "'Go Forth, Young Explorer
vs. Sit Down, Young Writer': Shaping Scholarly Identities as New
Graduate Students"
12-Theory

M.21	 Cultivating an Alternative Pragmatism for Public Writing:
Dewey on Community Engagement outside the Public
Sphere Tradition
By rethinking John Dewey on community engagement, this panel seeks
new theoretical tools for inquiring into public writing activity.

B114
Speakers: Antonio Ceraso, DePaul University, "What's Aesthetic about
Public Engagement?"
Jeremiah Dyehouse, University of Rhode Island, "'Primary Expression':
Dewey on Pubic Writing, Community Engagement, and Doing Things
Together"
Stephen Schneider, University of Louisville, "Reconstructing Community
Engagement: From the Problematic Public to Creative Democracy"
10-Research

M.22	 Multidimensional Faculty Development

Panelists present research-validated strategies for increasing faculty
efficacy in teaching and writing.

B117
Chair: Travis Webster, University of Houston–Clear Lake
Speakers: Denise Comer, Duke University, "Postdoctoral Writing Fellows:
Cultivating Multidisciplinarity, Seeding Transfer"
continued on next page

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 367

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 367

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Beth Keller, Indiana University–Purdue University Fort Wayne,
"Cultivating the Present and Future: Recommendations on the Status of
Graduate Students 2013 Survey of Graduate Students in Rhetoric and
Composition"
Ann Lawrence, University of South Florida–Sarasota-Manatee,
"Cultivating Professional Identities as Writers, Scholars, and
Researchers: Extracurricular Peer Writing Groups for Education
Doctoral Students"
Lilian Mina, Auburn University at Montgomery, "Using Critical Research
to Cultivate a New Media Professional Development Model"
Marcia Rego, Duke University, "Postdoctoral Writing Fellows: Cultivating
Multidisciplinarity, Seeding Transfer"
1-First-Year and Advanced Composition

M.23	 Writing and/vs. Research: Disciplinary Tensions in the
Teaching of Researched Writing

This panel addresses disciplinary tensions between writing and research in
scholarship, institutional discourse, and pedagogy.

E142
Speakers: Joseph Bizup, Boston University, "The Writing/Research
Binary: Scholarly Articulations"
William FitzGerald, Rutgers University-Camden, "The Writing/Research
Binary: Institutional Articulations"
Wendy Hayden, Hunter College, CUNY, "The Writing/Research Binary:
Curricular Articulations"
Respondent: Kundai Chirindo, Lewis and Clark College
12-Theory

M.24	 Agency and Subjectivity in Rhetoric and Composition

Speakers discuss issues and theories of agency and the rhetorical subject
in rhetorical theory and society.

D134
Chair: Jerry Petersen, Utah Valley University, Orem
Speakers: Joshua Cruz, Arizona State University, Phoenix, "Wading
into the Bull: Discourse-Based Interviewing and Phenomenological
Analysis of Undergraduate Bullshit Practices in Writing"
Kefaya Diab, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, "Sense of
Agency as a Scene of Rhetorical Investigation: Toward a Rhetorical
Theory of Sense of Agency"
Julianna Edmonds, Florida State University, "Liminal Ethos: Negotiating
Subjectivities and Cultivating Identities"
David Riche, University of Denver, "Against Agential Bias: Rhetorical
Patiency and Rhetorical Pedagogy"

368

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 368

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

M.25	 Cultivating Success: Rethinking Retention Programs and
Pedagogies
A disruption of retention discourse can be enacted by cultivating different
ways of understanding student success and persistence.

E141
Speakers: Cristine Busser, Georgia State University, "Retention and
'Student Success': Disrupting Institutional Notions of Success in FirstYear Composition"
Ashley Holmes, Georgia State University, "Locating Retention: Data,
Surveillance, and Swipe Technologies"
Anna Plemons, Washington State University, Pullman, "Cultivating
Decolonial Options for University Retention Programs"
Pegeen Reichert Powell, Columbia College Chicago, "A Kairotic
Pedagogy and Shifting Definitions of 'Success'"
6-Information Technologies

M.26	 Claiming Social Media and Gaming for Learning

Panelists look at intersections of teachers' and students' expectations for
the use of technologies in the writing classroom.

B110
Chair: Kim Freeman, University of California, Berkeley
Speakers: Lavinia Hirsu, University of Glasgow, "The Temptation of
Google, Facebook, and Other Platforms: Students' Engagement with
Sources in Digital Environments"
Aaron Lanser, University of California, Davis, "'Yeah, I text a lot in class.
I know I shouldn't': Digital Underlife and Community in the First-Year
'Stretch' Writing Program"
Joseph Williams, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, "Can a Game
Replace a Textbook? Designing and Testing a Learning Simulation"
Integrated Academic Literacies/Library Partnerships

M.27	 Connecting across Academic Literacies: Writing,
Reading, and Researching

This session will engage participants in identifying ways to cultivate
connected support for writing, reading, and researching.

C123
Speakers: Gabe Gossett, Western Washington University, "Research
Meets Writing: Pedagogical Challenges and Opportunities"
Kelly Helms, Western Washington University, "Writing Meets Research:
Pedagogical Challenges and Opportunities"
Roberta Kjesrud, Western Washington University, "Reading Meets Writing
and Research: Pedagogical Challenges and Opportunities"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 369

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 369

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Two-Year College

M.28	 The Inver Hills Model: When Change Begins with Student
Needs
Four faculty at a community college discuss their innovative structure
of developmental writing that combines the ALP model with learning
communities.

E146
Speakers: Kim Elvecrog, Inver Hills Community College
Mary Thompson, Inver Hills Community College
Laurel Watt, Inver Hills Community College
Matthew Williams, Inver Hills Community College
3-Community, Civic & Public

M.29	 Cultivating Partnerships: Sites of Community Literacy

This panel presents findings from three different community literacy sites:
senior citizens, tweens and teens, and writers with disabilities.

D139
Chair: Melinda Knight, Montclair State University
Speakers: Julianne Candio Sekel, Montclair State University, "Speaking
with a New Voice: Lessons from an Online Writing Community for
Laryngectomees"
Emily Lagg, Montclair State University, "Lifelong Learners across the
Age Spectrum: The Little Falls Young Writer's Workshop"
Alicia Remolde, Montclair State University, "We Still Have Stories to
Tell: A (Writing) Seminar for Lifelong Learners"
8-Language

M.30	 Identity, Race, and Power in Translingualism

Speakers discuss how race, identity, and power must play a central role in
translingual studies, research, and pedagogy.

B112
Chair: Angeline Olliff, California State University, Northridge
Speakers: Kerry Clark, Saint George's School, "Approaching World
Englishes in the Composition and ELL Classrooms through PostMulticulturalism"
Telsha Curry, Syracuse University, "My Mama Ain Yo Mama! A
Discussion of Linguistic and Cultural Identity Appropriation in
Conquered Trans-Rhetorical Spaces"
Jennifer Kontny, University of North Carolina Wilmington, "'Whatdya
mean by that?': Using Commenting Threads as Furrows for Further
Investigating Language and Identity Politics"

370

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 370

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Karen Rowan, California State University, San Bernardino, "Challenging
Colorblindness in Translingual Work: Toward a Race-Conscious
Translingualism"
11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.31	 Come as You Are: Capacious Pedagogies

This panel showcases the flexibility in how we approach the composition
classroom, from embodied delivery to cross-field collaborations to
prioritizing authentic writing.

C126
Chair: Rhea Yablon Kennedy, Gallaudet University
Speakers: Maureen Johnson, Texas Woman's University, "Delivery and
Embodiment: Interrogating Culture in the Multimodal Classroom"
Talitha May, Ohio University, "Wild Multimodality: A Compositionist and
Graphic Artist Collaborate to Teach Multimodal Composition"
Ilknur Sancak-Marusa, West Chester University, "Thinking beyond the
Academic Essay—Positioning the First-Year Writer as an Agent of
Change"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

M.32	 Cultivating Ethics of Fairness, Hospitality, and Care in
Composition

Participants will leave this roundtable with a better understanding of how
hospitality and fairness can enhance writing programs.

A106
Chair: Michael Stewart Lewis, Savannah State University
Speakers: Peter Brooks, University of Washington Bothell
Nicholas Learned, Lenoir-Rhyne University
Jessica Nastal-Dema, Prairie State College
Ingrid Nordstrom, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Alexis F. Piper, Lakeland University
John Raucci, Frostburg State University
Respondent: Diane Kelly-Riley, University of Idaho, Moscow

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 371

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 371

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

11-Writing Pedagogies and Processes

M.33	 Video Pedagogy and Teaching for Transfer across Media
This panel investigates the role of video composition in teaching for
transfer across assignments in first-year writing.

A107
Speakers: Angela Berkley, University of Michigan, "Cultivating Real
Audiences: From Viewers to Readers"
Catherine Jostock, Oakland University, "Research into Meaning: Primary
Research in Video Composition and Its Relation to Problem Solving,
Organization, and Self-Awareness"
Lauren Rinke, Oakland University, "Visual Analysis and Investigation:
Cementing Rhetorical Appeals and 'Real Life' through Video
Composing"
Crystal VanKooten, Oakland University, "Using Interviews and
Observations to Look for Transfer across Media"
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

M.34	 Beyond Productive Tensions: Operating outside of
Expertise in Research and Pedagogy

On navigating tensions that arise when operating outside of one's
expertise, as brought about by situational or methodological necessity.

D137
Chair: Benjamin Miller, University of Pittsburgh
Speakers: Laura Feibush, University of Pittsburgh, "Virtual Boundaries:
Online Teaching Platforms and Embodied Listening"
Moriah Purdy, University of Pittsburgh, "Constraint Is Not Constraint:
Procedural Literacy and Learning to Code"
Melissa Yang, University of Pittsburgh, "Composing Chimeras to
Cultivate Interdisciplinary Invention"
10-Research

M.35	 Scholarly and Practical Orientations in Education
Research Articles: A Genre-Based Study

This panel examines how research articles accommodate commitments to
both scholarly and practical aims in three education subfields.

F149
Speakers: Olivia Hornstein, University of British Columbia
Kate Power, University of British Columbia
Aaltje van Enk, University of British Columbia

372

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 372

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

8-Language

M.36	 Cultivating Sustainable International Composition

Participants develop theory-rooted methods of transnational composition
based on the experience of successful writing-abroad practitioners.

E145
Chair: Linda Breslin, Southern Nazarene University
Speakers: Katie Gindlesparger, Philadelphia University
William Lalicker, West Chester University
David Rogers, Philadelphia University
Holly Ryan, Pennsylvania State University, Berks
14-Cultivating Connections, Cultivating Space

M.37	 Identity in Digital Spaces: Some Perspectives on Race
and Gender
Each panelist explores ways of being in digital spaces.

E148
Chair: Alexis Larsson, CUNY Graduate Center
Speakers: Regina Duthely, St. John's University, "Legitimizing Identities:
Race, Gender, and Liberation in Digital Discourse Communities"
Tracey Hayes, Northern Arizona University, "Literacy Practices in Twitter:
Cultivating Advocacy through Writing"
Megan Opperman, Texas A&M University-Commerce, "#nonbinary:
Writing Nonbinary Gender into Existence through Tumblr"
7-Institutional and Professional

M.38	 Major Changes, Changing Majors

Panelists describe strategies for redefining and strengthening programs in
light of student needs and evolving institutional landscapes.

B111
Chair: William Morgan, New York University
Speakers: Amy Clements, St. Edward's University, "Ready for the 'Real
World': Strengthening an Undergraduate Writing Major through
Alumni Outreach"
Debra Knutson, Shawnee State University, "Don't Make Them Learn Too
Much: Policies Intended to Aid Transfer Students"
Dauvan Mulally, Grand Valley State University, "Cultivating SelfMarketing Skills: Preparing Writing Majors for the Job Search"
Mary Rist, St. Edward's University, "Ready for the 'Real World':
Strengthening an Undergraduate Writing Major through Alumni
Outreach"
Sean Zwagerman, Simon Fraser University, "'I read an article about what
not to major in and English was in the top 5': Attitudes of University
Freshmen toward the English Degree, and Implications for Curricula"
CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 373

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 373

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

Tribute Session
Tribute Session: Peter Elbow

M.39	 Embracing Contraries: Peter Elbow on His Life in
Composition Studies

A seminal contributor to modern composition studies will reflect on
the field and his own contributions to it.

Portland Ballroom 251 & 258
Speakers: Sheridan Blau, Teachers College, Columbia University
Peter Elbow, University of Massachusetts Amherst

Two-Year College

M.40	 Cultivating Writing Programs and Curricula:
The Promises and Limitations of Open Educational
Resources at Two-Year Colleges

Reflects on possibilities and limitations of Open Educational Resources
for programmatic and curricular development work at two-year colleges.

Portland Ballroom 252 & 253
Speakers: Anne Canavan, Salt Lake Community College, "Increasing
Access and Engagement for English Language Learners"
Justin Jory, Salt Lake Community College, "Insights on a Program-Wide
OER Initiative and/as Infrastructure"
Lisa Mahle-Grisez, Sinclair Community College, "You Get What You Pay
For: Challenging the Assumptions Surrounding OER Content"
Dawn Penich-Thacker, South Mountain Community College, "OER: A
Boon and a Barrier?"
Carolyn Reynolds, Sinclair Community College, "OER Adoption as Social
Justice Work"
Keith Rocci, Pima Community College, Tucson, AZ, "Leveraging Library
Resources to Support the OER Curriculum"
Crystal Sands, Excelsior College, Albany, NY, "Bringing an OER Writing
Resource to Community Colleges: Sharing the Excelsior College
OWL"
Anthony Sovak, Pima Community College, Tucson, AZ, "OER in the
Online Writing Class"
Marlena Stanford, Salt Lake Community College, "Valuing Faculty
Expertise and Student Engagement through Locally Developed Texts"

374

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 374

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

5-History

M.41	 Generations of Anti-Racist Rhetoric

Presenters focus on sites and strategies of resistance against structures of
racism.

A109
Chair: Kay Halasek, The Ohio State University, Columbus
Speakers: D'Angelo Bridges, California State University, San Bernardino,
"Reshaping the Faultiness of Rhetorical Theory: 'My Bondage'
Reimagining the Western Rhetorical Tradition"
Annie Mendenhall, Armstrong State University, "Alternative History
as Protest: Genre Appropriation as Activism in 1970s Desegregation
Rhetoric"
Sean Molloy, William Paterson University, "The Anti-Racist,
Psychologically Aware Pedagogy of the 1965–67 SEEK Writing
Program at City College"
Stacey Parham, Judson College, "Cultivating Connections: The Women
of the Civil Rights Movement and the Composition Students of Judson
College"
6-Information Technologies

M.42	 Cultivating Researcher and Participant Identities in
Visually Oriented Social Media Spaces

Speakers present research projects exploring researcher and research
subject identities in methodologically challenging social media sites.

B115
Speakers: Lauren Cagle, University of Kentucky, "Imposed Identities: The
Ethical Challenges of Researching Nonconsensual Online Images"
Brandy Dieterle, University of Central Florida, "Music Performers and
Queer Rhetoric: How Queer Rhetoric Informs Lady Gaga's and Nicki
Minaj's Instagram Posts"
Sara West, University of Arkansas, "Now You See It, Now You Don't: The
Role of Researcher in Ephemeral Social Media Spaces"

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 375

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 375

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 12:15–1:30 p.m.

13-Writing Programs

M.43	 Nonmainstream Literacies and Communication

This session explores communication practices related to second language
writing and African Americans in various regional communities.

D140
Chair: Joyce Locke Carter, University of Arkansas at Little Rock
Speakers: Michael Blancato, The Ohio State University, "Weaving
Literacy Narratives and Academic Arguments: A Service-Learning
Approach to Composition Classrooms"
Gregg Fields, Arizona State University, Tempe, "Using Rogerian Methods
and Rivaling Strategies: Enhancing Writing Programs' Instructor
Collaborations"
Beth Gillis-Smith, Moorpark College, "Course Embedded Tutoring to
Support Student Writers"
3-Community, Civic & Public

M.44	 Chalk It Up to Racism: Promoting Civility and Civil
Discourse in an Era of Hostility

This presentation examines current sociopolitical discourse involving race
on the university campus.

F151
Speakers: Alex Foote, Western Carolina University, "The Responsibility
of the Composition Teacher: Fostering Student Capacity for Empathy
and Community Engagement"
Jason Huber, Western Carolina University, "The Impermanence of
Revision Rhetoric: The Center Will Hold"
Corrine Roberts, Western Carolina University, "Speaking Back to Hate:
Examining Administrative and Community Response to Racist
Rhetoric on the University Campus"
Shani Searcy, Western Carolina University, "Building a Wall: Lives That
Matter; Lives That Don't"
Teaching Writing/Literacy (All Levels)

M.45	 Rhizomatic Improvement Communities: Three Models of
K–16 Professional Development
Presenters discuss several new regional K–16 networked improvement
communities cultivated to improve the transition to college composition.

C124
Speakers: Sean Agriss, Eastern Washington University
Lori Inman, Mead School District, WA
Andrea Reid, Spokane Community College
Justin Young, Eastern Washington University
376

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 376

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 2:00–5:00 p.m.

Postconvention Workshops
2:00–5:00 p.m.
Open to all convention registrants; no additional registration required.

SW.01	 "A Bridge across Our Fears": Teaching Aspiring Teachers
and Tutors through Story
As educators tasked with preparing aspiring teachers and tutors for
working effectively—and justly—with student writers, we understand
the power of stories to shape how teachers and tutors think about who
students are, what they need, and why they make the choices they do as
they compose. In this half-day workshop, we will lead participants in an
exploration of the role progressive and alternative young adult literature
might play in teacher/tutor education and will help participants create
exercises and assignments designed to help aspiring teachers and tutors
develop nuanced and compassionate storytelling practices about and for
their students.

Portland Ballroom 257
Speakers: Frankie Condon, University of Waterloo
Sheryl Scales, SUNY Potsdam

SW.02	 Hey Teacher, Lead Them Kids in Song: A Workshop on
Music and Performance for Compositionists

In its fourth consecutive year at the CCCC Convention, this half-day
workshop infuses music and performance powerfully into composition
pedagogy and professional development to enhance writing instruction
and build community connections. This workshop introduces and explores
a variety of performative exercises and embodied rhetorics derived
from participants' own interpersonal, bodily-kinesthetic, and musical
intelligences, culminating in a reflective discussion and planning of
performative strategies.

E145
Speakers: Lauren Esposito, Marywood University
Nicole Galante, Stony Brook University
Shawn Garrett, Friends Academy
June Griffin, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
David Hyman, Lehman College, CUNY, Bronx
Peter Khost, Stony Brook University
Faith Kurtyka, Creighton University
Robert Lazaroff, Nassau Community College, SUNY

CCCC CONVENTION, portland 2017	 377

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 377

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 2:00–5:00 p.m.

SW.03	 Cultivating Strategic Action in Teaching against
Plagiarism: Using Plagiarism as an Educational
Opportunity

Too often, teachers seek to address plagiarism through policing tactics.
However, plagiarism can be a learning and writing strategy, a feature
of the transition from outsider to insider in the development of a writer.
This interactive workshop is intended to help writing instructors develop
a repertoire of practical teaching strategies to help students learn how to
engage in conversation with previous texts effectively and appropriately.

Portland Ballroom 256
Speakers: Valerie Seiling Jacobs, Columbia University
Scott Leonard, Youngstown State University, OH
Gerald Nelms, Wright State University, Dayton, OH
Carole Papper, Hofstra University, Las Vegas, NV
Robert Yagelski, SUNY-Albany

SW.04	 Bridging Expectations: A Workshop on the Alignment of
High School English and First-Year Composition
Sponsored by the Oregon Writing and English Advisory Committee
This collegial workshop will center on the intersection, as well as the
divergences, of the Common Core State Standards with the OWEAC
outcomes. We will refine our understanding of terminology and explore
productive curricular design for our revised writing outcomes, which
have an increased focus on students' facility with rhetorical concepts
and vocabulary, as well as our expectation that students will  develop
metacognitive awareness.

Portland Ballroom 255
Chair: Kate Sullivan, Lane Community College
Speakers: Ashley Benson, Blue Mountain Community College
Vicki Tolar Burton, Oregon State University, Corvallis
Nancy Cook, Clatsop Community College
Donna Evans, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande
Nancy Knowles, Eastern Oregon University, La Grande
Jillanne Michell, Umpqua Community College
Jodi Naas, Portland Community College
Cornelia Paraskevas, Western Oregon University
Christopher Syrnyk, Oregon Institute of Technology
Mindy Williams, Central Oregon Community College

378

d337-389-4Cs-2017.indd 378

2/8/17 7:45 AM

Saturday, 2:00–5:00 p.m.

SW.05	 Writing Studio Pedagogy: Cultivating Student Voice and
Capacity for Change

Writing Studio describes an alternative approach to teaching, supporting,
and conducting inquiry into writing alongside student writers in a variety
of higher education sites. This year's half-day workshop focuses on
Writing Studio curriculum and pedagogy. Workshop facilitators will
provide insight into how to design studio activities for different student
populations or courses and will share a wealth of curricular approaches for
scaffolding student growth and transfer of learning.

A106
Chair: Rhonda Grego, Midlands Technical College
Workshop Facilitators: Alison Cardinal, University of Washington
Karen Deaver, The College of New Jersey
Bre Garrett, University of West Florida, Pensacola
Nicole MacLaughlin, University of Notre Dame
Aurora Matzke, Biola University, La Mirada, CA
Mark Sursavage, University of Houston, TX
John Tassoni, Miami University Middletown

SW.06	 Writing and Publishing Op-Eds: Cultivating Public Voices

This interactive workshop is part of what Paula Mathieu calls a "public
turn" in composition studies, particularly how teaching writing connects
with our lives outside the classroom. Writing op-eds is one way that
faculty, students, and other writers can advocate for social change. With
a goal of cultivating voices of diversity in mainstream print, online, and
mobile newspapers, workshop participants will learn how to write op-eds,
publish them, and integrate op-ed writing into writing courses.

Portland Ballroom 254
Workshop Facilitators: Charles Donate, Florida International University
Tonya Drake, Edmonds Community College Foundation
Glenn Hutchinson, Florida International University
Andrea Potter, Edmonds Community College Foundation
Cayce Wicks, Florida International University
